Yeah, hahaha
"Cause when I flow the for the street.." - ".. who else could it be"
"Nas.."
Yo
Explode, my thoughts were drunken from quarts of beers
Was years back, before Nasir would explore a career in rap
As a music dude, I mastered this Rubik's Cube
Godzilla, fought Gargantua, eyes glued to the tube
Was a, long time ago, John Boy Ice
Geronimo po-lice jumpin out Chryslers, easywider paper
Pops puffin his sess, punchin his chest like a gorilla
Outside was psychoes, killers
Saw Divine, Goon and Chungo, Lil' Turkey
R.I.P. Tyrone, 'member no cursin front of Ms. Vercey
Big Percy, Crazy Paul, the Sledge Sisters
My building was 40-16, once in the blue, hallways was clean
I knew, all that I'd seen had meant somethin
Learned early, to fear none little Nas was huntin
Livin carefree laughin, got jokes on the daily
Y'all actin like some old folks y'all don't hear me
Yo I'm in my second childhood
"Cause when I flow the for the street.." - ".. who else could it be"
"N-A-S" - "Nas.."
"Resurrect, through the birth of my seed.." - "Queensbridge"
"Make everything right.." - "Get yours, nigga"
Yo, dude is 31, livin in his moms crib
Ex-convict, was paroled there after his long bid
Cornrows in his hair, still slingin, got a crew
They break his moms furniture, watchin Comicview
Got babies by different ladies high smokin L's
in the same spot he stood since, eighty-five well
When his stash slow, he be crazy
Say he by his moms, hit her on her payday
Junior high school dropout, teachers never cared
They was paid just to show up and leave, no one succeeds
So he moves with his peers, different blocks, different years
Sittin on, different benches like it's musical chairs
All his peoples moved on in life, he's on the corners at night
with young dudes it's them he wanna be like
It's sad but it's fun to him right?  He never grew up
31 and can't give his youth, he's in his second childhood
Baby girl she's always talkin name droppin hangin late
Drinkin smokin hates her baby daddy, craves shoppin
E poppin Ecstasy takin, won't finish her education
Best friend she keeps changin, stuck with limitations
Lustin men, many hotels, Fendi Chanel
With nothin in her bank account frontin she do well
Her kid suffers he don't get that love he deserve
He the Sun, she the Earth, single mom, even worse
No job never stay workin, mad purty
Shorty they call her the brain surgeon
Time flyin she the same person, never matures
All her friends married doin well
She's in the streets yakkety yakkin like she was 12
Honey is twenty-seven, argues fights
Selfish in her own right, polite, guess she's in her second childhood
"Who else could it be.." - "N-A-S" - "Nas.."
__SEPERATE__
You cocked back, you thought you had it planned
You thought you had your man
He saw you comin’, he ran when you tried to blast that man
Missed him by inches, he sprinted
Some of his boys on the corner was who your bullets entered
Two of ‘em pull through, but one didn’t, son’s finished
You took the life of him
The part about it that’s crazy, you was aight with him
Tight with him, why was he in the way?
Why was he standin’ next to the enemy that specific day?
His style never hollas loud, stays reclusive
Good dude, got that look like he always about to do shit
Side of his mouth toothpick, one eyebrow raised
Got into it with dude who still tried to live out his old wild out days
They never had no probs
Somehow they rubbed each other wrong like a bad massage
These two different personalities had to collide
Niggas could not aim and innocent niggas died
You ask why, cause of a…
Accident murderer
Act like you killed on purpose
Liars brag, you put work in
You ain’t mean to murk him, your gun’s a virgin
Streets are full of them, read the bulletin
Accident murderer
You just an accident murderer
We grew up doin’ graffiti
Now hollows heads gettin’ heated
Seated in foreign cars, constantly gettin’ weeded
Proceeded to count profits, I know they got on binoculars
But fuck ‘em all, we ballin’ ’til they come lock us up
Twenty to life, I’m clubbin’ blowin’ twenty tonight
We the Marlboro, Marley Marlin’ all through the night
Addicted to wealth, never cold turkey to war
Snatch a tech off the shelf, live forever that’s Insha’Allah
Memoirs of a rich nigga
Sweat suits, gold chains, old drug dealers
New Benz, chrome rims off a show killer
You niggas accidental shoppers in back of the limo
Pay your ties, stay alive, can’t be dodgin’ my clique
Hundred check, I use your bitch for some bargainin’ chips
In a hole, sell your home, nigga go sell your soul
This forty-five in control, God forgives and I don’t
Accident murderer
Act like you killed on purpose
Liars brag, you put work in
You ain’t mean to murk him, your gun’s a virgin
Streets are full of them, read the bulletin
Accident murderer
You just an accident murderer
Accident murderer
Accident murderer
You just an accident murderer
Yo, for my nigga that got killed, got hit up
Vodka spills on the concrete, light a swisha
We miss ya
And for that girl who never made it home, shot in the dome
How they gon’ kill that beautiful sista?
Violent adolescents, homicidal with weapons
Not a lot of knowledge inside of they minds, that I’m guessin’
Tell me who you impressin’?
Shooters I knew them when they was babies, I used to test them
Make ‘em throw up they hands, choke ‘em out playin’ in wrestlin’
Watch ‘em grow to a man, I see them now they reppin’
But they cold-blooded, homie, wonderin’ where the respect went
Can’t play with these little niggas, gangsta little niggas
Can’t hang with these little niggas, they killin’, they reckless
Wish I could build with him, but will he change really?
Some real killers, I think of Wayne Perry
Fake ’til my nigga draws, what you want a name? Tell me
You ain’t mean to kill him, it wasn’t necessary
__SEPERATE__
This is what... this what they want huh?
This is what it's all about..
What?  Time to take Affirmative Action son
They just don't understand, youknowImean?
Niggaz comin sideways thinkin stuff is sweet man
Yknahmean?
Niggaz don't understand the four devils:
Lust.. Envy.. Hate.. Jealousy
Wicked niggaz man
Yo, sit back relax catchin contacts, sip your cog-nac
And let's all wash this money through this laundry mat
Sneak attack, a new cat sit back, worth top dollar
In fact, touch mines, and I'll react like a Rottweiler
Who pull the late, we play for high stakes at gunpoint
Catch em and break, undress em tie em with tape, no escape
The Corleone, fettucini Capone
Roam in your own zone or get kidnapped and clapped in your dome
We got it sewn, The Firm art of war is unknown
Lower your tone, face it, homicide cases get blown
Aristocrats, politickin daily with diplomats
See me I'm an official mack, Lex Coupe triple black
Criminal thoughts in the blue Porsche, my destiny's to be the new boss
That nigga Paulie gotta die - he too soft
That nigga's dead on, a key of her-oin, they found his head on
the couch with his dick in his mouth, I put the hit out
Yo, the smoothest killer since Bugsy, bitches love me
And Queens where my drugs be, I wear Guess jeans and rugbies
Yo my people from Medina they will see you
when you re-up on your heater all your cream go betweeen us
Real shit, my Desert Eagle got a ill grip
I chill with, niggaz that hit Dominican spots and steal bricks
My red beam, made a dread scream, and sprayed a Fed team
Corleone be turnin niggaz to fiends
U-Conn's and ninja black Lexus, 'Mega the pretty boy
with mafia connections it's The Firm nigga set it
Yo, my mind is seein through your design like blind fury
I shine jewelry sippin on crushed grapes, we lust papes
and push cakes inside the casket at Just wake
It's sickenin, he just finished biddin upstate
And now the projects, is talkin that somebody gotta die shit
It's logic, as long as it's nobody that's in my clique
My man Smoke, know how to expand coke, and Mr. Coffee
Feds cost me two mill' to get the system off me
"Life's a Bitch," but God-forbid the bitch divorce me
I'll be flooded with ice so hellfire can't scorch me
Cuban cigars meetin Foxy at Demars
Movin cars, your top papi Senor Escobar
In the black Camaro
Firm deep all my niggaz hail the blackest sparrow
Wallabee's be the apparel
Through the darkest tunnel, I got visions of multimillions
in the biggest bundle, in the Lex pushed by my nigga Jungle
He money bags got Moet, Sean Don
Bundle of sixty-two, they ain't got a clue what we about to do
My whole team we shittin hard like Czar
Sosa, Foxy Brown, Cormega, and Escobar
I keep a fat marquis piece, laced in all the illest snake skin
Armani sweaters Carolina Hebrera
Be The Firm baby, from BK to the 'Bridge
My nigga Wiz, operation Firm Biz, so what the deal is
I keep a phat jew-el, sippin Crist-ies
Sittin on top of fifty grand in the Nautica Van, uhh!
We stay incogni' like all them thug niggaz in Marcy
The Gods, they praise Allah with visions of Gandhi
Bet it on, my whole crew is Don Juan
On Cayman Island with a case of Cristal and Papa Chula spoke
Nigga with them Cubans that snort coke
Raw though, an ounce mixed wit leak that's pure though
Flippin the bigger picture, the bigger nigga with the cheddar
Was mad dripper, he had a fuckin villa in Manilla
We got to flee to Panama, but wait it's half and half
Keys is one and two-fifth, so how we flip
Thirty-two grams raw, chop it in half, get sixteen, double it times three
We got forty-eight, which mean a whole lot of cream
Divide the profit by four, subtract it by eight
We back to sixteen, now add the other two that 'Mega bringin through
So let's see, if we flip this other key
Then that's more for me, mad coke and mad leak
Plus a five hundred, cut in half is two-fifty
Now triple that times three, we got three quarters of another key
The Firm baby, volume one uhh..
__SEPERATE__
Yeah, Affirmative action, with my crew, NTM
This is Nas Escobar
International remix
Check the lyrics 
Chacun sa Mafia, Chacun sa mille-fa
Mmh, baby, come wicked nigger
You sit back relax catching contacts
Sip your cognac
And let's all wash this money
Through this laundry mat
Sneak attack
A new cat is back worth top dollar 
In fact touch mines and I'll react
Like a rock wilder
Who pull the late
We play for high stakes at gun point
Catch'em and break undress'em tie'em
With tape no escape
The Corleone Fettucini Capone
Roam in your own zone
Get kidnapped and clapped in your dome
We go it sewn
The firm art of war is unknown
Lower your tone face it
Homicide cases get blown
Aristocrats
politician daily with diplomats
see me I'm an official mack
Lex coup triple black
Pas de Don Corleone dans mon quartier 
Mais si tu deconnes jusqu'au bout faudra jouer les bonnes
Mais y a plus de place pour les rêves
Ici quand on s'élève les rageurs te jettent l'oeil
Même les Anges te crèvent
Sache que l'union fait la force mais que la misère la divise
Et qu'en période de crise chacun mise sur son biz
Chacun sa Mafia , chacun sa mille-fa
Même l'état fonctionne comme ça
Que d'la gouille-ma déguisée en secrets d'états
 The Firm, baby
 Chacun sa Mafia, chacun sa mille-fa
Aujourd'hui ça se passe comme ça
 The Firm, baby
 Chacun sa Mafia
 Nas with NTM yo the Firm connect
Yo my mind is seeing through your design
Like blind fury
I shine jewelry sippin' on crusted grapes
We lust papes
And push cakes
Inside the casket at just's wake
It's sickening he just finish bidding upstate
And now the project
Is talking that somebody gotta die shit
It's logic
As long as it's nobody that's in my clique
My man smoke
Know how to expand coke
And Mr coffee
Feds cost me 2 mil to get the system off me 
Life's a bitch
But god forbid the bitch divorce me
I be flooded with ice or hell fire kid scorch me
Cuban cigars
Meetin' foxy at the mars
Movin' cars
Your top poppy Sr Escobar
Pour tous mes peeps, je le balance avec mes tripes
J'applique
Et nous affecte, cherche pas, y'a même plus rien qui nous implique
Même la vie nous tient a bout de bras
On oeuvre dans l'ombre
Ayant conscience de notre force
La force du nombre
C'est comme ça qu'on prime dans cette putain de société parallele,
On a le vent dans le dos prêt a voler de nos propres ailes
Chez moi y'a pas de trou , pas...
Non y'a pas de place pour tout ça
Dans mon quartier mon gars
J'ai vue que des gosses qui se bousillent en bas
 Seine-Saint-Denis Style
In a black camaro
Firm deep all my niggas hail the black esparo
Wallabees be the apparel
Through the darkest tunnels
I got visions of multimillions in the biggest bundle
In the lex pushed by my nigga Jungle
He money bags got moet shan dor
Bundle In 62
They ain't got a clue what we about to do
My whole team we shittin' hard like czar
Sosa, Foxy Brown, Cormega and Escobar
I keep a fat marquis piece
Laced in all the illest snake skin
Armani sweaters carolina herarra
Be the firm baby, from BK to the bridge
My nigga wiz operation firm biz
so what the deal is
So let's see, if we flip this other key
Then that's more for me
Mad coke and mad leak
Plus a five hundred
Cut in half is two-fifty
Now triple that times 3
We got three-quarters of another key
The Firm baby, volume one uh!
 Seine-Saint-Denis Style 
Suprême NTM Nas dans la place
Seine-Saint-Denis Style ... 
No Don Corleone in my area
But if you fuck up you'll have to do dirt
But there's no time for dreamin'
here when you go up, jealous people come
even angels want you dead
know unity is power but wisery divides
and in time of crisis, everybody watch its own business
Every man to his Mafia, every man to his family
Even the government is working like this
only scheming hidden as state secret
for all my peeps, I finger him
I act
it affects us, don't look, we're not implicated in anything anymore
We act in the shadow
Being aware of our power
the fact that we are numerous
That's how we live in this fuckin' parallel society
We got the wind in our back ready to fly with our own wings
here is no hole, no...
No time for all this
In my area man
I only saw children killing themselves downstair
__SEPERATE__
Check it, uhh
Protect this, nigga for the necklace
I throw the death wish , the pretty slim sex shit
The rep this, remember Fox said this
We on some next shit, we are blessed this
The scares on our backs mean we met this
The lie for them, for 25 sentence
To keep my eyes on 'em, I straight knowin' when the light shine on 'em
Shitty drugs and drama, oppposite three pretty thugs and a don momma
Fillin' the rest, the steel in they chest
And Boogs threw the kiss of death, it was over
And we laid out, chill I was open off the way he ate out
It was real, for real I was fuckin' wit' mills and he was frag-ile
We wowin', the brown stallion
Stay stylin', on the low foulin'
The whole Firm woulin', we lucked it
I know the trick bitch he fuck with, on some duct shit
Heard through the grade that she sucked it, Firm Sos and Esco
Mad loco, Fox and Mega for whatever and through this chedda
We gon' stay family, till we fry though
The fam will never split even if one of us die though
Along with our get go's, we gon' blaze til it brick-o's
Peep the na na, sweet taboo
The Firm tattoo on the tha tha, now tell me what crew
Hold it down like we do da da
Till the death of this, murderous moves persue effortless
Ice neckalce, high priced dressed executives
Peep the grammer, flim built strong stamina
Forty-four nickel plate long with the silencer
Play for keeps in shut eye you stay sleep shit
Remain deep in ???? thrown at ya veins jeeps
Juiliani suite got all the kings goin' up for creek
Devil like biz now, who left his twirl in the streets
No intelligence, stritcly slow niggaz minds with ????
It's evident, Feds mess up paid ya residents
We all for livin', heavyweight Firm division
Mine, I check mine ?Iaswines? is my religion
You know the stees, take aim, cock and squeeze
It's the prophecies, got the philosciphies Socrates
Next up
Yo I believe that's me 
Aye yo, the Feds fot me in the top ten, cuz when my door got knocked in
A four four man's hoped in, my sinister mind
Shines like a Dilinger, Mega exhaulted Babyface crime emperor
Yo life is based on cultures and creeds, and feed the way
Be the thug nigga sess, I've seen niggaz tied up
Handcuffed and ??, cold crisis is live when drugs supply driver
The Millenium drives up, rimes and my blinds ya eyes temporarily
Nas and Mega be heavily armed for felony, John you could never see
The next fat cat of NYC, It Was Written like ghetto life heirogriphics
Livin' since my real niggaz bailed me out of prision, a lot of scams
Cause the narcotics beamin', Queens had marked dollars
And the knowledge of thieves, my dream is the legacy
Of my penetentary, fake thugs couldn't even take gloves to burry me
To all theroughbreds takin' the corners, ya'll need to join us
Firm most powerful nation of rap performers, high class generals
Confidence, payin' lawyers
Swift as Oscar Delaholia, green berett warriors
Fakes I keep them like the John Kennedy tape, in the new with two
Bustin' all in they face, I'm never worried cause your see through
My man built the Sugar Hill from sweet tooth, we all eat
Cause we I speak truth, uneducated black youth 
Street diploma, teach Greeks and Romans but the legacy was stollen
It's a Firm thing, generally green I wrote the theme 
On how to sell a million while ya cats are mad at ya promotion team
I roll with the nice as Fox, black ice pushin' whips without a license
Yeah, tight as five strokes, Nas got 19 wifies
Seven sheisty, nine of them Piceses
Three white meats under tight cheese, woulin'
Big links is heavy like bricks, used to want a pitbull
While feedin' them raw steak, it's core take
More cake, I take the time off the so-called king of the town
And lock it down
__SEPERATE__
Morning to you man
Morning to you love
Hey, I say I say
Africa must wake up, the sleeping sons of Jacob
For what tomorrow may bring, may a better day come
Yesterday we were kings, can you tell me young ones
Who are we today? yeah, now
The black oasis, Ancient Africa the sacred
Awaking, the sleeping giant, science, art is your creation
I dreamed that we could visit old Kemet
Your history is too complex and rigid for some Western critics
They want the whole subject diminished
But Africa's the origin of all the world's religions
We praise bridges that carried us over
The battle fronts of Sudanic soldiers
The task put before us, do you hear me now?
Africa must wake up, the sleeping sons of Jacob
For what tomorrow may bring, may a better day come
Yesterday we were kings, can you tell me young ones
Who are we today? yeah, now
Africa must wake up, the sleeping sons of Jacob
For what tomorrow may bring, may a better day come
Yesterday we were kings, can you tell me young ones
Who are we today?
Who are we today? The slums, diseases, AIDS
We need that all to fade, we cannot be afraid
So who are we today?
We are the morning after, the makeshift youth
The slave ship captured, our diaspora is the final chapter
The ancestral lineage built pyramids
America's first immigrants
The kings, sons and daughters from Nile waters
The first architect, the first philosophers
Astronomers, the first prophets and the doctors were us, us
Now can we all pray?
Each in his own way
Teaching and learning
We can work it out
We'll have a warm bed
We'll have some warm bread
Shelter from the storm dread
And we can work it out
Mother nature feeds all
In famine and drought
Tell those selfish in ways, not to share us out
What's a tree without root?
Lion without tooth?
A lie without truth?
You hear me out!
Africa must wake up, the sleeping sons of Jacob
For what tomorrow may bring, may a better day come
Yesterday we were kings, can you tell me young ones
Who are we today? yeah, Lord
Africa must wake up the sleeping sons of Jacob
What tomorrow may bring. may some more love come
Yesterday we were kings, I tell ya young bloods
The world is yours today...
Dadyahow daali waayey, nabada diideen
Oo ninkii doortay dinta, waadinka dillee
Oo dal markii ladhiso, waadinka dunshee
Oo daacad ninkii damcay, waadinka dooxee
Oh ye people restless in the refusal of peace
And when a man chooses religion, aren't you the ones to kill him?
And when a country is built, aren't you the one's to tear it down?
And when one attempts to tell the truth, aren't you the one's to cut him down?
We want to thank y'all, everybody out there
This is Nas, Damian Marley
Distant Relatives
We're all distant relatives, no matter where you from, where you live
How near or far
Africa, China, Japan, Afghanistan, Israel
We're all fam, we're all distant relatives
So that's why we came together - one of the reasons
Why myself and Damian came together
Cause we all come from one place, and that's Africa
That's right, you too. And you
The whole world!
We're all family, we're just spread out all over the place
So to all my distant relatives, let's take it back home!
I say! Africa must wake up, the sleeping sons of Jacob
For what tomorrow may bring, may a better day come
Yesterday we were kings, can you tell me young ones
Who are we today? yeah, now
Africa must wake up, the sleeping sons of Jacob
For what tomorrow may bring, may a better day come
Yesterday we were kings, can you tell me young ones
Who are we today? Who are we today?
Morning to ya! Morning to ya man!
Morning to ya love!
__SEPERATE__
-Hey Nas, hey hey boy, you see what they done did to Jimmy and Lee.
 Mmmhmm.  Damn, man.
-I can't take it man.
 Sho' can't.
-You think this is gonna eva' change?
 Man, damn this place, man!  Damn these chains!  These damn
chitlins every damn night.  
-This cotton.
 Shit!
-I can't take it man.
 Harriett done left the night befo'.  It's time we go.  
Aint no place for black folk here. Man, promise land callin'
me man.
-It's callin' me too.
 It's time we go.
-Yeah, I'm wichou!
 Hey man, hey damn these chains, man.  
Damn you master, you
ain't my master, man! 
 You aint nothin', you aint nothin.
-Hey Bandit, Bandit, get the dogs!  Get the hounds, we gonna
have ourselves a hangin' tonight!
 Nineteen-ninety-six!
Back up in this nigga.
The right way, though, you know? 
-Double-tre son, you know  aint nothin'
coincedental or accidental, son.
 No doubt!
-You know how it's goin' down, man.
 It was all written.
-No question, I'm sayin' man, I mean, how we playin' man,
you know what I'm sayin', they dealt us in, son.
They playin' with a fifty-four deck, you see with the
Jokers in and everything, you know what I'm saying?
 Son, I'm playin' with the fifty-two.
-You wanna stress on how I used to play, that's how I play.
 But, yo, they takin' us into this next millenium, right now.
-I'm sayin' law, you know what I'm sayin' we gotta lay the law,
cause without law aint no order, you know what I'm sayin', 
that's why these cats are slippin'
through, you know what I'm sayin?  They got the rules missin',
though.
 True.
-Yo, word up, though, you know what I mean?
 Son, these niggas look faker than the new hundred dollars, son.
-Yeah, you see that they look Monopoly money, right?
 Word, with the big ass face on it.
-Yo, what I'm sayin', we see through all that, though
you know what I'm sayin?
 No question.
-All eyes seein', son, you know we real.
 Yo, no doubt.  In the Qu'ran it says Nas, the men.
Nesa's the woman, know?  It was written.
__SEPERATE__
"Recently there has been an emergence of socially
conscious and political rappers.  It seems to be
a new trend in the Hip-Hop world."
Yeah, check it, uh
Spot build-rocker, lil' papa killed Hoffa
Beard lil' longer, feel strong and I'll stop ya
Drill sergeant, still thorough, wheelbarrows of distilled vodka
Get me real bonkers like Will Ferrell on cat tranquilizer
Rap guys get bank and think they messiahs, but they liars
Vote fo who now? You're red, white and blue?
I'm American too, but I ain't with the president's crew
What you peddlin' and who you peddlin' to?
You ain't got the ghetto with you
Try'na lead my sheep to the slaughterhouse
Talkin 'bout +Rap the Vote+, you ain't thought about
The black vote mean nathan, who you gonna elect
Satan or Satan? In the hood nothin is changin, uh
We ain't got no choices who to choose
Ten-years ago they were tryin to stop our voices
And end Hip-Hop, they some hypocrites
Condoleeza Rice - I don't really get this chick
Tell her if she ever really cared about poor schools
About poor children, then she gotta prove that she
ain't just another coon Uncle Tom fool
Like these MC's, gotta give 'em the rules
Lie to the youth, Uncle Tom you confused
Might as well give the Hip-Hop community a noose
Need a truce with the gangs and some food for the hungry
On Kerry nuts, he look at you like a monkey
You MC's on that old slavery path
The Bushs'll look at yo' ass and laugh
See, it's all about community, let's help ourselves
Cops brutalize us get dealt with with shells
It's our turn, it's 'bout time we win
Need somebody as the hood as my councilman, uh
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way, shit
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way, shit
 Cause that's the American way)
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way, shit
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way
Up in the steam room chillin', exfoliating the skin
It's rarely men conversatin' on ends, probably businessmen
I sense good taste, and they watch us, the spots an expensive place
Manhattan New York, I'm try'na keep steamin'
It's good for the lungs, had plans for the evening
This man leans in, his boys laughing
Now I'm the spokesperson for Black men, this always happens
Says, "Since all Black women care about is who got dough
And all we do is call them either bitch or a Black hoe"
I say first brotha you ain't gotta be that cold
Since you ignorant, I'ma show you how the facts go
The biggest example in scandal of history
Were Monica Lewinksy or Donald Trump's pimping spree
Most woman who love Jeevanji of Gucci
Are pretentious non-Black groupies or floozies
But who are we to blame, not the dames
It's a man-made game, in essence our woman the same
Beautiful creatures, Black girls birthed the earth
So they deserve to earn man's purse
Matter fact, I'm about to go shopping with my dime
Catch you cowards the next time, the next rhyme, uh
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way, shit
 That's the American way)
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way, shit
 Cause that's the American way.  What up, K?)
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way, shit
 That's the American way)
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way, shit
 Ha, yeah)
I don't care about the runaways
I don't care about who's gay
I don't care about dying of AIDS
But I care if I got paid
Who even cares about the president?
I think they're making a mistake
I don't care about the hurricane
As long as my family's safe
I don't care about the candidates
They burnt this country to bits
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way  Uh)
Can we make a change
You know it's not overnight
Let's start the fight 
Can we make a change
You know it's not overnight
Let's start the fight 
Yeah I think about this everyday, that's the American Way
__SEPERATE__
I walk the block like whatever god, my message to y'all feds
Who desperate to arrest us young, benevolent hardheads
Abrochrombie & Finch rockin', wrist glistenin' marksman
Hitchcock of Hip-Hop since Big Pop departed
The project logic is still salute the dead, glocks spit
Pour some juice out for those in Manchester, Viewmount
Otisville, Newasberg, Fort Dicks, Fort Worth, Oakdale
Every fed jail where all my dawgs lurk
War hurts much to gain 'til the day we all say
May your pain be champagne then we all blaze away
At our enemies, may they die easily
Long as they perish forever's what freedom means to me
Blowin' greenery, growing eager to see evil things
Thrown away, zonin' grey, GT, Diesel jeans
Airs and Chucks, solitaires, stones with the rarest cuts
On some Pretty Tone shit, haircut looks airbrushed
And they're aware of us though
And we don't give a flyin' 7-47 fuck though
Stayin' on my hus-tle
A message to those who trapped us up, from federal guys who backed them up
We never will die, we black and tough, lead in your eye, we strapped to bust
Half of us been locked up inside the beast, look at the time we see
Brooklyn to Compton streets, Queens, even the Congo needs dreams
Our bullets and triggers our enemies pullin' on innocent women and children
It wasn't no ghetto killers who mixed up the coke and put guns in our buildings
But I'm not gon' cry, and I'm not gon' stand just watch you die
I'ma pass you a .9, I'ma grab your hand -- come on let's ride
A message to those who killed the king, who murdered the Christ
The same regime, what God has built you never can break
What God has loved you never can hate, man makes rules and laws
You just a ruthless dog, your kennel is waiting
You devils will run back into the caves you came from
Whenever that day comes, forty-acres, plantations, see every race won
Sincerely yours, Street's Disciple, revelations
__SEPERATE__
First I see a flashin' light, then on my own
I hear nothin', the smell of fire in brimstone
I feel hundreds arms grabbin' me, fallin' down the hole
Is it because there is no Gravity my body leaves my Soul
Is the Devil mad at me? will I go to Hell?
Or is it Heaven that awaits me?, is too early to tell
Is it now that I'm to be judged?
Will I face thee bright tunnel warm lights?
Will embrace me before force takes me
Like I'm movin' through high winds
See my self in baby carriages, relatives and friends
Things manifest, kings from every planets rest here
Beams of light hear the voice of the Nazareth near
You 'Amongst Kings' from both far near land
Made in my emit son of God son of man
You came in the spirit for I am that I am
Father of all worlds fallin' angels in the land
Seen my body layin' down in the ground
It was painless, didn't feel a thing
Shots ring felt the anxious to get up and run
I was atheist, committed Suicide
I wish I could erase this shit
I seen a new life before the Christ
He created night & day, the sun & moon
From the virgin woman's womb
We lookin' down at my body, emergency room
Doctors frownin' at me surgical performs, I'm doomed
It's my day of judgment, eternal peace & fire
Far past the stars far past the Orion
I asked that you forgive father, I was tryin'
Many thrones in the light but only one's truly shinin'
Faster then the blinkin' eye, is the master or not
Face to face  bitin' my case so we debate 
Countin' all my sins , where do we begin
When I stabbed the man in the train station or drunk gin
When I grabbed the man let the shells hit him from the Mac 10
It was all retaliation,  from way back then
Now I got the black Benz  trips from Aspen 
Disney World for my little girl and I'm askin'
You would recognize all the good deeds I'm worth 
Send me on a trip God please the Earth
So I can deliver thou want it, stop playin'
He gave me life, I screamed out loud that "I Am..."
And I saw another mighty angel come down from Heaven 
Clothe wit the cloud 
And the rainbow was upon his head as a Crown 
And his face was lit as were the Sun 
And his feet as pillars of fire 
And his name was Nastradamus 
Nas...
Nas...
Nas...
__SEPERATE__
These ancient thoughts
This ancient look
These ancient hearts
This ancient soul
These ancient songs
These ancient people
These ancient thoughts
This ancient look
These ancient hearts
This ancient soul
These ancient hopes
These ancient people
Like a bird, in the sky
And the sea, and the birds
And the trees, and the sun
Melody
Like a mountain, like a valley
Like the river, like the lake
Like the earth, when it quake
Space and sea
This is rock and roll meets aristotle
I fly those g5's through the skies to cabbo
Martial arts more ancient than tabbo
Schwartzman, more ancient than zorro
Ancient like the pharohs or priests of yoruba
Maher rabah-nasr is the best
Them paths like climbing mount kiliminjaro
Ancient men traded cattle
Before columbus was lost in travel, ancient canoes got paddeled
Before the horse saddle there was camel
Spears before arrow, arrow before ammo
Tribal paint before camoflage
Chief before sarge, our lieutenant
Village elders before senates
Used to sail the seas before the compass was invented
Ancient people spoke free, they didn't need a 1st amendment
In the beginning, the drum was the tech cendent
There was moons before months, and time before minutes
These ancient thoughts
This ancient look
These ancient hearts
This ancient soul
These ancient songs
These ancient people
These ancient thoughts
This ancient look
These ancient hearts
This ancient soul
These ancient hopes
These ancient people
From love, onto language, onto heiroglyphist
De Invention of the wheel, onto mathematics
De almanac, de calender, onto geographics
Herbal medicine, to anti-biotic Ginseng to acetonic
Water pump, water pump, to onto hydrolics
Moonlight, candle light, onto electronics
Instinct to knowledge, classroom to college
Eyyy, all of These ancient thoughts
These ancient thoughts
This ancient look
These ancient hearts
This ancient soul
These ancient songs
These ancient people
These ancient thoughts
This ancient look
These ancient hearts
This ancient soul
These ancient hopes
These ancient people
Junior Reid:
Man ah Buss de earth, man ah Buss de sky
Junior Gong, and Junior Reid we meditation it so high
Man ah trod de gravel, it dutty and it dry
Oh oi, dem nuh see nuh wings, but man ah fly
Babylon fi splurt, dem nuh know what life is worth
Oh Oi, tell dem stop polluting mother earth
Man ah mek ah trot, me robe, me sandles and me rod
Dem shouldve known, hear seh man this man ah God
Ancient thoughts
Ancient look
Ancient hearts
Ancient soul
Ancient songs
Ancient people
Ancient thoughts
Ancient look
Ancient hearts
Ancient soul
Ancient songs
Ancient people
__SEPERATE__
Angels with dirty faces, angels with broken wings
The devil's dust, PCP, invaded blood streams
People lining up to get it, Fantastic knew how to flip it
Illegal substances constructing, but plus addicted
Trust it and respect it, almost got me arrested
All of the time I invested in school is now of question
Child prone to violence like a dog returns to its own father
The fool for chaos, taking what we can salvage
Hustling is an art, I'm just trying to be smart
Strung our bodies out in the park, Shaolin was my heart
We stood for loyalty, all we had was each other's back
My raps were like crystallized powder before crack
Raw, uncut, like what they sold in front of the store front
The sidewalk was my brother's office
We cut our losses, I had choices
I took a pen, became a voice for the voiceless
My people walking in a zombie state
Life is short, even mines at stake
The government says that angel dust can kill you if you take it or it can cause you to kill others
The scourge of angel dust has been linked to psychosis, violence, schizophrenia, and the epidemic runs especially rampant in the Bronx. My administration will hunt down these poison pushers and arrest them one my one until we get directly to the source
__SEPERATE__
I’m pregnant, don’t know who the dad is
I’m happy but this shit’s the saddest
I’m maintaining still keeping my status
Fuck what you haters say, my ass is still the fattest
Roll with the baddest, my girl and Gucci glasses
How could you pass this? Your loss
But I ain't trippin’, I’m still a boss
I won’t be another black girl lost
Lost, lost, lost, lost, Lost, lost
I won’t be another black girl lost
Brown and beautiful, black and stunning, light and delicious
Chocolate covered, strawberry kisses and cherry lipstick
Very mystic, bald stitches her wig
Kinky, curly or dread
Goddess come grant my wishes
Tantalising touch of succulent skin, we should wed
Start off broke then stay together till we make it big
My Queen is English so join the truth I can learn from you
Never Ike Turner you but look what you tryna do like
Get out of order you’re not a supporter of my dream
Rich girl fantasy schemes, a good man she needs
But she young and she speeding honey, now whats the reason
You just met this nigga think you owe him a fucking threesome
So you lusting to have a baby by a Denver Nugget
You don’t love him you want security, baby you’re buggin’
Financial liberty you’re after, it’s how you live
But the blood test shows, it’s not even his kid
I’m pregnant, don’t know who the dad is
I’m happy but this shit’s the saddest
I’m maintaining still keeping my status
Fuck what you haters say my ass is still the fattest
Roll with the baddest, my girl and Gucci glasses
How could you pass this? Your loss
But I ain't trippin’, I’m still a boss
I won’t be another black girl lost
Ya lost 
Ya lost 
She lost 
Black girl lost 
I said she lost 
Ya loss 
I love ya
Chanel bags, everything
She shopping every time she gets a wedding ring
This her third marriage, 4 carats
Brand new Jag, deserves to have it
Temptation, she can’t let go her dirty habits
Mid 30′s, spendin’ dough at Magic
She’s dancin’, romancin’, she’s up at Manson
She fucks all my mans, and they pop the Magnum
So now what you gonna do, the morning after pill is way overdue
‘posed to get married, now you embarrassed
Who does this kid belong to?
Promiscuous, cause you got touched by step-dads, sex at
Such a young age, you’s a virgin, I get mad
Sick society, blaming yourself so wrong
I highly respect you, bet that, strong, intelligent
This song ain’t to poke fun of you, to get laughs
I just love you, really love you
Here for you, wanna trust you
Wanna cuff you, be my lady
But first, I gotta see the baby
__SEPERATE__
Rest in peace to Black Just
Riding through Jamaica, Queens in his black truck
Timbs was 40 below, waves to the side of his dome
Definition of good nigga, yo
Gangsters don't die, niggas only become immortal
Angels don't only fly, they walk right before you
In front of you, it's foul what this money could do
Cash corrupts the loyal
I hung with E-Money, too, the fucking truth
Fucking with Stretch from Live Squad
I could've died the same night that Stretch died
I just got out of his ride
He dropped me off and drove to Springfield
November thirtieth, another Queens king killed
It fucked me up, y'all
I was just trying to make it with Steve Stoute
The legal way, drug-free route
Back in the days, they was sleeping on us
Brooklyn keep on taking it, Manhattan keep on making it
Trying to leave Queens out
But we was pulling them beams out, them M3's out
Pumping bringing them D's out
Rastas selling chocolate weed inside of a weed house
Colosseum downstairs, gold teeth mouth
Astoria warriors, 8th Street, twin buildings
Vernon, can't even count the Livingston children
Justice in Ravenswood, nice neighborhood
Caught sleeping out there, be a wrap, though
Bridge niggas be up in Petey's ten racks, yo
A simple bet on a serious cash flow
Get money, Manolo, welcome home, Castro
Queens-bridge unified all I ask for
Let's do it for D.U, say what up to Snatch, yo
I just salute real niggas when I pass through
Niggas is very hungry for that bank robbery
Bury money, trying to get to a Benz from a Hyundai
The Queens Courthouse right next to the cemetery
Niggas' rap sheets look like obituaries
You be starving in Kew Gardens
Bolognas and milk from a small carton
You could still feel chills from the team
On 118, my nigga Ben fly by like it's a dream
His face on his Shirt Kings
Laced in a pinky ring, in his black Benz murking
Back when Black Rock & Ron was on the map
Cheeba in yellow sacks, dope sold in laundromats
Thugs bark, getting amped from weed
Over the heart of champions, see
Ever since back then, a nigga been about the dough
 
Any other real niggas in the world besides us, I ask?
Probably is, but odds are we'll never cross paths
Put your glass high if you made it out the stash spot
And here to tell a story and celebrate the glory
Drinks in the air for my niggas not here
This how we do, I see you D.U
Queens to the heavens, salute the hood legends
Crack the Patron, Hennessy, and Glenlivets
Champagne bottles drowning out the sorrows
Hope the memories'll get us through tomorrow
I'm a real O.G cause back in nine-three
Niggas couldn't fuck with me, sipping 'gnac since I was little
Laid back in a rental
Mouth shining, Eddie's gold caps all up in the dental
Nigga getting money now, but you know I'm still mental, but not simple
Put your glass high if you made it out the stash spot
And here to tell your story and celebrate the glory
Drinks in the air for my niggas not here
This for the fallen soldiers
Hold it down, I told ya
Pop another bottle and keep the smoke rolling
Watch the con realest channel his mom's spirit
Goosebumps cover me, mother's here, I could feel her
Blood of Christ covers me, our savior and healer
Drug prices up or down, I know a few dealers
And some accident murderers, they act like they killed on purpose
Liars brag they put work in
You ain't mean to murk him, your gun's a virgin
Better stay on point, if not, it's curtains
Bebo Posse reincarnated through me, probably
If music money didn't stop me
I never claimed to be the toughest
Though I'm to blame for a few faces reconstructed
It's the game that we was stuck with
Now I'm the only black in the club with rich Yuppie kids
Sad thing, this is the top, but where the hustlers went?
No familiar faces around, ain't gotta grab the musket
It's all safe and sound, champagne by the bucket
Where them niggas I shouted out on my first shit?
Bo cooking blow, fucking slay that, where Turkey went?
Old videos show niggas that was murdered since
Another reason to get further bent
Put your glass high if you made it out the stash spot
And here to tell your story and celebrate the glory
Drinks in the air for my niggas not here
This for the fallen soldiers
Hold it down, I told ya
Pop another bottle and keep the smoke rolling
__SEPERATE__
As we enter
Come now we take you on the biggest adventure
Must be dementia, that you ever thought
You could touch our credentials, what's the initials?
You be Jamrock the lyrical official
Send out the order, laws and the rituals
Burn candles, say prayers, paint murals
It is truth we big news, we hood heroes
Break past the anchor, we come to conquer
Man a badman, we no play Willy Wonka
And I got the guns
I got the ganja
And we could blaze it up on your block if you want to
Or haze it up stash box in a Hummer
Or you could run up and get done up
Or get something that you want none of
Unlimited amount you collect from us
Direct from us, street intellectuals
And I'm shrewd about decimals
And my man'll speak Patois
And I can speak rap star
Y'all feel me even if it's in Swahili
habari gani
nzuri sana
Switch up the language and move to Ghana
Salute and honor, real revolution rhymers
Rhythm piranhas
Like true Obamas, unfold the drama
Word is out, hysteria you heard about
Nas and Jr. Gong gonna turn it out
Body the verse until they scream "murder" out
The kings is back, time to return the crown
Who want it? Tuck your chain, we're due coming
Renegades that'll peel you back like new hundreds
Bet your jewels on it, you don't want to lose on it
Either move on or move on it
Queens to Kingston
Gunshot we use and govern the kingdom
Rise of the Winston, I can see the fear up in your eyes
Realize you can die any instant
And I can hear the sound of a voice
When you must lose your life like mice in the kitchen
Snitching, I can see him pissing on hisself
And he's wetting up his thighs and he trying to resist it
Switching, I can smell him digging up shit like a fly
Come around and be persistent
That's how you end up in a hitlist
Ain't no bad man business
No evidence
Crime scene, fingerprint-less
Flow effortless
Casual like the weekends
No pressure when
We're comfy and decent
We set this off beasting
Hunting season
And, frankly speaking...
Word is out, hysteria you heard about
Nas and Jr. Gong gonna turn it out
Body the verse until they scream "murder" out
The kings is back, time to return the crown
Who want it? Tuck your chain, we're due coming
Renegades that'll peel you back like new hundreds
Bet your jewels on it, you don't want to lose on it
Either move on or move on it
Word is out, hysteria you heard about
Nas and Jr. Gong gonna turn it out
Body the verse until they scream "murder" out
The kings is back, time to return the crown
Who want it? Tuck your chain, we're due coming
Renegades that'll peel you back like new hundreds
Bet your jewels on it, you don't want to lose on it
Either move on or move on it
__SEPERATE__
The ill reminisce and think about the fly days
Nothing like them 80s summer N.Y. days
Hop on the NB5 days
Mopeds, Pro Keds, city split five ways
How it all started, fifth floor apartment
A jigsaw puzzle aerial view of the projects
A kid saw struggle, buried a few of his partners
Now chill in resorts, enjoying massages
Check out the oracle bred from city housing
Nas, I'll rise the deads by thousands
I remember seeing Shan chilling near his Audi
Hollis Ave, Run and them but I proudly
Put a poster up of Shan and Marley, that was art kid
You love to hear the story how it started
The bubbly I'm pouring wasn't popped yet
Before there was a audience to watch us
I assure you, there was a process
"You love to hear the story, how it all, how it all got started"
How it all got started, yeah
"You love to hear the story, how it all, how it all got started"
How it, how it all got started
"You love to hear the story how it all, how it all got started"
Hear the story, started off
Started off, started off
How it all got started
"Back when, back when, back when, back when
Back when, back when, back when, back when"
To call them fake today is hate, real niggas extinct
Pac left me inside a rap world with niggas that wink
At other rappers, undercover niggas spit every way
Won't be surprised if all their rides have federal plates
Let alone their wardrobes and Studio 4 flow
It was real when I appeared, it would've been some jaws broke
Nas, my real name, stage name, same thing
How could you let these lames claim king? I'm so ashamed, man
I light a L for Vernon, for niggas who would burn in Hell
For Vernon; 10th Street, 12th Street, Nightmare on Elm Street
Pimps creep, delve deep inside the editorials
Of the ghetto queens, kings, stories true
Who possesses the testicular fortitude
To blow away myths that's a hindrance to all of you
You blame your own shortcomings on sex and race
The mafia, homosexuals and all the Jews
It's hogwash point of views, stereotypical
Anti-Semitic like the foul words Gibson spewed
And it's pathetic, I don't get the credit I deserve
That's why I hate doing interviews
But I don't sweat it, study long, study raw
My man Dion said "Nas over-think the songs he writing"
I'm not a wack performer standing near a corny hype man
I got the Donism in me, I'm here to enlighten
"You love to hear the story, how it all, how it all got started"
How it all got started, yeah
"You love to hear the story, how it all, how it all got started"
How it, how it all got started
"You love to hear the story how it all, how it all got started"
Hear the story, started off
Started off, started off
How it all got started
"Back when, back when, back when, back when
Back when, back when, back when, back when"
__SEPERATE__
Turn your radios up...
You are now allowed to listen to the radio...
The REAL niggaz are back, on the radio...
Uh, no slackin, no beggin, no askin, no fastin
No disrespect to Islam or? Iman? or pastor
No answers to questions the media's askin
Why we fight each other in public in front of these arrogant fascists?
They love it; puttin the old niggaz vs. the youngest
Most of our elders failed us, how could they judge us? Niggaz
There's verbal books published by niggaz, produced by niggaz
Genuine niggaz, so I salute my, niggaz
Not mad 'cause Eminem said nigga, 'cause he my nigga
Wigga, cracker, friend - we all black within, okay?
We all African, okay
Some Africans don't like us no way!
A killng happened in Johannesburg, yesterday
Slain artist named Lucky Dube, hijacked
Some say N-double A-C-P, keep us sidetracked
But I don't buy that, I buy Aston Martins
Faster cars than, NASA cars in, sparkin while ridin
Critics, eat a dick! Journalists see I'm rich
With this "N-word jogging, " I'm just startin, bitch!
I'm a nigger, he's a nigger, she's a nigger, we some niggers
Wouldn't you like to be a nigger, too?
To all my kike niggers, spic niggers, guinea niggers, chink niggers
That's right, y'all my niggaz, too
I'm a nigger, he's a nigger, she's a nigger, we some niggers
Wouldn't you like to be a nigger, too
They like to strangle niggers, blamin niggers, shootin niggers, hangin niggers
Still you wanna be a nigger, too? True...
Wake up in the mornin, shake my third leg in the toilet
Uzi on the nightstand, I'm the man you go to war with
Not a man you go to war against, patience, I'll get you
If that means I can't sleep a WHOLE YEAR, I'm a get you
I'm official not "A-Tisket" or "A-Tasket"
I'll put you in the casket, with the biscuit or the ratchet
They smoke hibiscus, they plants or trees, advanc-ed weed
Don't forsake us, you're all are fake bloods like moviemakers
I flow tighter as Tootie's braces, who be hatin us?
I be on a state bus in shackles if my .8 bust
'Cause y'all some tellers, opposite of bankers
I'm the shit for ages, my clique still real QB gangsters
Clique still movin like Freemasons
So if I'm on the flo' for the law, there's lodgers all across the nation
Nas is bred for the plan, to hold the Grand
Dragon's head in my hand, come and get me, here I am
__SEPERATE__
Fully grown with your hormones now
Got your own home and you alone
Wanna bone, wanna moan, get your back blown out
You a big girl now, in a world, where these niggas are foul
You could be aborting the next Michael Jordan
Your man don't wanna be around
She's sexy, she got it, she ride it
Every nigga wanna be inside it
I need her, I'll eat her
Do anything to please her
My ghetto queen of Sheba
I'm the type that'll get you by the fireplace
Get you hype when I lick it, put it in your face
Sipping red wine, is it bedtime
You can kick it with your nigga while we listen to Faith
I'm feeling richer today
I can hit it then stay
Lingerie make me take it to the kitchen and play
We got champagne, whipped cream, I'ma grab a bucket of ice
Bubble bath running, and the candlelight feeling so right
It's your night, no stress, no fight
Mad at your ex, cause his dough tight
Never go right when you're with him
Try your best to forget him
Cause it's easy to please me
CD skip when your head board hit the wall
Call for the law
Right when you cum, I'm biting your tongue
Make your legs cramp up, you can't stand up
You can hit a blunt if you want
I'ma pull my pants up
We can discuss a weekend of lust on top of the trust
Tell me what's the reason for us
To love or to fuck
I'm the thug that you want
If it's gangster we can't front
If you want me I can stay around
If you need me, I'm here for you
How that sound?
Now it's up to you
Depending on how you wanna get down
Cause you're a big girl now
Got your name and your number in my cell phone
Hear your voice and I wonder where you are, if you all alone
If you in a good mood, if you not
Or you thinking bout you was at my spot
What we did when we got hot
Is you dreaming you had me?
Is you creaming your panties?
Like a king, fed me grapes, and you fanned me
On the couch, to the floor, to the bed, to the sink
And we ate each other like candy
Under the covers, two intimate lovers
You fuck a nigga like you mad at me
Throw the ass to me
You should be glad to be
In the presence of a real thug as bad as me
While I'm in the streets with my murdering squad
You talking to your friends that I'm hurting it hard
How I'm making my rod, how I make you say "Oh God"
Every hoe that you know wanna know Nas
Gotta dodge all the blowjobs, getting hard
Cause you know how these girls are
Wearing tight shit, no panties, no bra
Running up to my car with menage a trois suggestions
Starting to get an erection
Guessing, only if you knew how your crew stressing
Complexion chocolatey, fondle me, thinking it's time to leave
I need time to breathe
Wanna follow me, Ironically
You pop up, throwing bottles at my Tahoe
Like it's my fault
But you don't wanna talk
Don't wanna hear nothing, all of a sudden
You and the shorty start scuffing
Now shorty dumping you out
Can't let her get the best of you
So I rescue you
Only thing left to do was to grab her
So you can jab her, get a cheap shot
You don't wanna feel chumped
Now here the cops come
So we gotta run to the ride
Then we drive off through the traffic
Don't panic, but you know how we gotta manage
Looking at your face
And the damage in your facial
Every angle can't let it faze you
No reason to be insecure or immature
Baby girl see the world is yours
__SEPERATE__
Get yours nigga
Cuz Imma get mine
In due time
Everybody gotta shine
Get yours, I spray nines
I say this one time
The last time, I swear to ya'll
I'm from where
The dope fiends is at
And killas crawl
And snitches call police
All these niggas and street
Corners everybody's like
Smokin' marijuana and
Snuffin' niggas in faces & startin' drama and
Shootin' niggas in cold blood, just kill 'em, so what
With the fo' pound go nuts
Betta slow up
Before you get your ass on up
Nigga never gonna grow up
Drinkin' the Henney
But her know he gonna throw up
Tryin' to make crack sales
What it look like? The future for a black male
Don't want to make my momma cry
On a front page for a homicide
Fly whips, all I wanted to drive
Where chicks get blunted & ride
Do 105 in the fast lane
And a fast pace chasin' the papas
Spendin' chips on big chains
And the dimes that give brains
That was a 80's and 90's thing
Now I'm into big things
I ain't fuck with you
Now I'm into big things
Gotta get my life together man
Cuz now I'm into big things
Nah, I ain't gonna rhyme wit you
Cuz now I'm into big things
You know I can't do that shit no more
Now I'm into big things
Nah, I can't fuck with you
I'm into big things
Nah, I ain't gonna stand on the corner
I'm into big things
Now the talk is small talk
I'm into big things
I'm into big things
The big things
The big things
When I started this
All I wanted was cars and cribs
Like other rap artists but
Do I know where I'm goin' to?
Can I forget when I came from?
I be showin' you
Another style Imma flow for you
Can I make somethin' wild
I can throw for you, flow for you
Make it bi-coastal
Take it to heights
That some of ya'll can't come close to?
Some of ya'll 
Want to talk like hoes
Worse than bitches
And when ya'll niggas see me blow
Bet it hurt like stitches
No competition
I stop and twist 'em
Hit 'em like a mafia proposition
I'm glad ya'll stopped and listen
Thinkin' back to when I had not pot to piss in
Look up at a nigga nod
Rocks are glistenin'
Can't stop my mission
Make anotha LP drop
I'm hittin'
With the new shit exclusive
No time to get caught up in a crime
I ain't have shit to do with
Used to chase the hoes
Now I chase the dough
Is ya'll bitches gonna help me get paper?
No!
I go past ya'll
Ya'll got the glass jar
And when I hit it, admit it
Ya'll on ya'll ass ya'll
We on the same team
You don't wanna pass the ball
Chuck and gun up the dough
You want to score
But you really don't want to ball
I put you on
It was me that introduced you to wealth
Crossin' me
Is like shootin' yourself
Wanna blow so fast now do it yourself
You ain't shit now
You was so ill, why you never came out
Where ya clique now
Where you sit now
In the back seat
Mad cuz I flip styles
And I pack heat
Make you run laps
Like a pro athlete
An' I done that
From my experiences
I appear relentless
Take more time
Just to hear my sentence
Imma tell you what's real
An' what could stop you from makin' a mil
You could prevent this
When niggas don't see eye to eye to you
Lie to you
Wanna get high wit you
Want to eat food off of your labor
And take food off your table
Cuz they don't see your vision
Don't understand your mission
Is to make history
While you here
How long you plan on livin'
Not for forever
At least to 140
Pray for me
I'm tryin' to eat
Like the niggas who bought
Motown on Berry Gordy
Good God
Nigga I'm tired of games
I'm into big things
Gotta get my life together man
Cuz now I'm into big things
Now the talk is small talk
Cuz now I'm into big things
I'm into big things
The big things
The big things
Man we already did that
Now I'm into big things
No time to get sidetracked
Now I'm into big things
Get money now besides that
Some more big things
I'm into big things
The big things
The big things
__SEPERATE__
]
 HELLO?!
 Whassup girl..
 Ain't nothin - this nigga in here stressin
talkin that old off the wall back to Africa shit again
 What, that God Body shit?
 Yeah, that dumb shit
I'm tryin to get up OUTTA here
 I hear that.. but yo, you know the spot is pumpin tonight
 Word f'real where?
 You know, where the real niggaz is poppin the Cristal
NOT THAT WHITE STUFF!
 Ha hah!  Word where the real niggaz at?
Listen.. to reason
Pretty baby baby listen..
A young wild beautiful love child
You like them thug style link rockin, then mink coppin
Hit you on the sink a hundred dollar drink poppin
The head'll make you take him shoppin, a foul doctrine
Reminiscent of my first time up in a chick
You was innocent, but now you rent-a-dick, wear the tightest shit
Chanel lookin real, airbrushed nails
Hit the gym, hit the scales, heaven-sent but negligent 
To see a prophecy, your ebony tone is lockin me
The way you moan make me daydream of you on top of me
Wishin I could be the one man; but you juggle 
way too many Willies all in one hand
You wanna run up in clubs, gettin rubbed on
Niggaz pull your hair, shake your fat rear
Get your fuck on - followin week, you back there
But what you stuck on, weed, clowns and cars
Puffin with some lil nigga, husband not knowin she's out
Could you believe Eve, Mother Earth of the seas
Niggaz thirst you, you just let em hurt you and leave
What up mah, frontin like you naive
Pusherman's whip, callin police when you flip
Can't understand it, yo it should be a throne for us
But for now that's a whole different zone from us, word!
Diamonds all shinin, lookin all fine
Pretty little face, get a little high
Young girl stugglin, tryin to survive
Mother of the Earth, she made you and I
Just tired of playin the same ol' games
Messin with my mind, emotional thangs
And there goes.. a black girl.. lost
Like Isis, she got you heartbroke and felt lifeless
Grow up girl instead you want revenge so now you act the nicest
to who'sever gettin down and trifless
To get his mind all you do is give him somethin priceless
Cause in time he'll realize the thighs is all he needs
More than weed, then you hit him off with lies and greed 
There you go again, startin wars, makin me more yours
Seem to get a kick out of keepin me on all fours
Face glistenin, I'm addicted to you
Original, Wisdom Body got me picturin you
Igloos of ice trickin on you, you never listen 
to this nigga spendin Franklins on tennis anklets
Must've had a bad deal in the past though
Can't even keep it real with a nigga with cash flow
Say men are all the same, what we need to do is break this chain
You got a job part-time and school's your night thing
With dreams to settle down, it ain't far from now
You gettin interviewed, but your boss is into gettin screwed
Typical day that the black girl sees
Comin home wantin more from a college degree
Where are you focused, on legit niggaz and where the coke is
Nice and Thug Life niggaz, yo you seem hopeless
Your value - too much to be measured, I wonder how you
could ever be played, your pussy worth gold amountin to
more than the world, but not knowin nothin about you
You leavin the crib, takin all your kids out to
drop them off, lettin some nigga knock you off
So hot and soft, that's the same thing that got you lost 
Growin up seein it, it should remind you, you bein lied to
Everything that move be inside you
Sacred as you are, left with these wannabes to guide you
I watched you, hard to knock you, I tried not to
They spot you out dancin topless in your drawers
Damn look, there goes a black girl lost
You should be ashamed of yourself
The way you carry yourself
The way you hang out all night long
Doin silly things that is wrong
Black girl..
__SEPERATE__
I'm a black man in a white world
I'm a black man in a white world
I'm a black man in a white world
I'm a black man in a white world
I'm a black man in a white world
I can see the saddest life, a savage life
Snakes and thieves, every man has his price
It's hell below, who will or won't sell his soul
What's my goal? Go to jail or fail, hell no
In the streets there's a few ways out cause face it
Time is short, think fast while I resort
To a life of crime and fast cash?
Nah I'm destined to be king, stayin' on the right path
I'm in love, I feel sad
I found peace and I'm not there
All my nights and all my days
I've been tryna runaway
I'm left in a world oppressed
How do I express
My very own ghetto Gettysburg address
My platform is a rap song
Black man is politically attacked on the norm
My life's survivin', at night I'm ridin'
Smokin', hopin', dreamin', speedin'
White lightenin' steamin', streets triflin'
I keep writin', it gets deeper
My brother's keeper are divided?
I decided to keep risin', yeah
I'm in love, I feel sad
I found peace and I'm not there
All my nights and all my days
I've been tryna runaway
New York, the irrefutable
The city if you make it out here it's beautiful
And the streets can deceive you when the times are hard
And the pressure leaves your mind, body, and soul so scarred
I'm in love, I feel sad
I found peace and I'm not there
All my nights and all my days
I've been tryna runaway
We need to wisen up
We risin' up
These times is rough
For real
For real
Yeah
Yeah
Yeah
Let's rise
Yeah
Come on let's rise
Come on y'all
Yeah
__SEPERATE__
They said this day would never come... 
They SAID, our sights were set too high. 
This country is too divided; too disillusioned 
to ever come together around a common purpose. They said..."
)
Yes we can...change the world...
{CHANGE THE WORLD...}
) 
Yes we can...change the world...
They forgot us on the block, got us in the box
Solitary confinement, how violent are these cops?
They need a early retirement 
How many rallies will I watch? I ain't got it in me to march
I got a Semi to spark, the game's in a drought
Public housing, projects, cookin up in the Pyrex
My set, my clique, either gettin money
or runnin from homicide trail, that's if they ain't died yet
Tryna be rich, STILL I'm pledging allegiance
A predicate felon, a ghetto leader
Lendin my poetical genius, to who-EVER may need it 
I BLEED this from Queensbridge, now living with my feet up
Never defeated, so a president's needed
You know these colored folks and Negros hate to see
one of they own succeeding
America, surprise us, and let a black man guide us
)
Yes we can...change the world...
{CHANGE THE WORLD...}
What's the black pres' thinkin on election night?
Is it, "How can I protect my life? Protect my wife? Protect my rights?"
Every other president was nuttin' less than white
'cept Thomas Jefferson and mixed Indian blood and Calvin Coolidge
KKK is like, "What the fuck?!", loadin they guns up
Loadin up mines too, ready to ride
'Cause I'm ridin with my crew - he dies, we die too
Yeah, but on the positive side
I think Obama provides hope, and challenges minds
of all races and colors to erase the hate
and try to LOVE one another; so many political snakes
We in need of a break, I'm thinkin I can TRUST this brotha
...but will he keep it way real?
Every innocent nigga in jail, gets out on appeal
When he wins, will he really care still?
I feel...
)
Yes we can...change the world...
{CHANGE THE WORLD...}
Say a prayer for "Do we have to?"
You ain't right, Jeremiah Wrong pastor
in love with a slave master
Sincerely yours, USA's most brave rapper
Jesse carjacker, Uncle TOm kidnapper
Ask around, Bently Coupe off the Richter
Bitch called Life, I pimped her, WHAT?
Politics, politricks, Klan shooter
Deacon for defense, progress producer
Nothing on the stove, a survival booster
Gotta DO what we gotta DO
We ain't got no governors comin through to help!
Anything we need done, gotta do for self
New, improved JFK on the way
It ain't the 60s' again, niggas ain't hippies again
We ain't fallin for the same traps 
Standin on the balconies, where they shot the King at
McCain got apoligies, ain't nobody hearin that
People need HONESTY!
)
Yes we can...change the world...
{CHANGE THE WORLD...}
It is my distinct honor, and privilege to introduce
the next President of the United States - Barack Obama
__SEPERATE__
]
I know you can feel the magic baby
Turn the motherfucking lights down
Esco what's up? 
I mean.. it's what you expected ain't it?
Let's go... uh, uh, uh, uh, uh
Turn the music up and the headphones
uh, Yea, that's perfect 
Uh, we got to take and make a nigga wait on this motherfucker
 Make niggas mad and shit like..
Niggas usually start rappin' after 4-bars, nigga go in
Start dancin' in this motherfucker
Yea,  niggas come outta nowhere
I feel like a Black Republican, money I got comin' in
Can't turn my back on the hood, I got love for them
Can't clean my act up for good, too much thug in 'em
Probably in the back of the hood, I'm like "Fuck it then"
Huddlin' over the oven, we was like brothers then 
Though you was nothin' other than a son of my mother's friend
We had governin', who would of thought the love would end
Like ice cold album, all good things
Neva thought we sing the same song that all hood sang
Thought it was all wood-grain, all good brain
You wouldn't bicker like the other fools talk good game
Neva imagine all the disasters that one could reign
Could bring!, should bling, the game, and I could
It's kill or be killed, how could I refrain?
And forever be in debt, that's never a good thing
To the pressure for success can put a good strain
On a friend you call best, and yes it could bring
Out the worst in every person, even the good's insane
Though we rehearsed, it's just ain't the same
When you put in the game at age sixteen
Then you mix things: like cars, jewelry, and miss things
Jealousy, ego, and pride, and this brings
It all to a head like coin, cha-ching
The rule of evil strikes again, this could sting
Now the team got beef between the Post and the Point
This puts the ring in jeopardy - indefinitely
I feel like a black militant takin' over the government
Can't turn my back on the hood, too much love for them
Can't clean my act up for good, too much thug in 'em
Probably in up back in the hood, I'm like, "fuck it then"
I'm back in the hood, they like, "Hey Nas" 
Blowin' on purp', reflectin' on they lives
Couple of fat cats, couple of A.I.'s
Dreamin' of fly shit instead of them gray skies
Gray 5's, hate guys wishin' our reign dies
Pitch, sling pies, and niggas they sing, "why"?
Guess they ain't strong enough to handle their jail time
Weak minds, keep tryin', follow the street signs
I'm standin' on the roof of my building
I'm feelin' - the whirlwind of beef, I inhale it
Just like an acrobat ready to hurl myself though the hoops of fire
Sippin' 80 proof, bulletproof under my attire
Could it be the forces of darkness, against hood angels of good
That forms street politics - makes a sweet honest kid
Turn illegal for commerce - to get his feet out of them Converse
That's my word
__SEPERATE__
Uhh
Yo, you believe when they say we ain't shit, we can't grow?
All we are is dope dealers, and gangstas and hoes?
And you believe when they be tellin you lie, all on the media?
They make the world look crazy to keep you inside?
Why you listen when the teachers at school
know you a young single parent out strugglin, they think you a fool
Give your kids bad grades and put 'em in dumber classes
Killin shorty future, I wonder how do we last it
Underground in they casket?  Ancestors turnin
I'm learnin somethin every day, there is no Lazareth
Words like God is Greek or Latin
So if you study Egypt, you'll see the truth written by the masters
My niggaz is chillin, gettin high, relaxin
Envisionin, ownin shit, yo it can happen
What do we own?  Not enough land, not enough homes
Not enough banks, to give a brother a loan
What do we own?  The skin on our backs, we run and we ask
for reperations, then they hit us with tax
And insurance if we live to be old, what about now?
So stop bein controlled, we black zombies
]
Walkin talkin dead, though we think we're livin 
We just copy-cat, followin the system 
Walkin talkin dead, though we think we're livin 
We just copy-cat, followin the system 
Aiyyo we trapped in our own brain, fuck behind bars
We've already gone insane
They've already gave up, cut our own heads offs
Stab our own backs and dream too much
without fulfillin reality; too greedy and
can't have one or two chains, we need three of dem
Can't have one or two guns without squeezin 'em
on our own people and, fuck black leaders
cause whites ain't got none leadin them, the rhythm is cosmic
Nas is divinity, the deity's prophetless
All get down and get up
Victims walkin 'round with Down's Syndrome, all stuck
Faintin, shoutin, catchin Holy Ghost in church
Scared to do it for ourselves 'less we see somebody doin it first
We begged, we prayed, petitioned and demostrated
Just to make another generation - black zombies
You scared to be yourself, cause you in a trance
Feel free, hear the music and dance
If you cared what they think, why wear what they wear, just for you
Dumb niggaz with long beards like they Arabs or Jews
or from Israel, bish'meal Allah, el-rachman, el-Rahim 
Islam's a beautiful thing
And Christian and Rastafari, helps us to bring
peace against the darkness, which is unGodly
So what's the black man's true religion, who should we follow?
Use your own intuition, you are tommorrow
 .. that's the sound of the beast
I'm a Columbia record slave, so get paid
Control your own destiny, you are a genius
Don't let it happen to you like it did to me, I was a black zombie
Wake up!  Black zombies in a spell for more than fo'-hundred years
Ghetto niggaz won't have it no mo', can I get a witness?
Why listen to somebody else tell you how to do it
when you can do it yourself; it's all in you, do it, do it
Do it niggaz..
__SEPERATE__
Blaze a 50, sit back in the drop top Azure Bentley.
of course wit me, this chick who'd make Bobby divorce Whitney.
Brizilian candy, from Miami.
massouse, wedding ring on, lovin Celine Dion.
hate rap, told me where she get caked at.
shes a part time danca, part time romanca.
tries to be a mother when she gets a chance ta.
left her husband, alone to raise they son hes in pampers.
modeled for a year, got her bachelors degree.
33 recoverin from plastic surgery.
went from 34B to 36 double D.
met her in San Diego at tha Super Bowl party.
had the Heiny sipped it up, wit Terrell Davis.
MVP, we flicked it up from Sports Illustrated.
I was silked out, flossin wit stout, he had the gators.
when she walked in, she lit up the room, like Las Vegas.
Terrell said our mans a full back for the Raiders.
a drunk whod fuck cheerleaders and wind up in the papers.
its easy to get the pussy, just dont fall in love.
next thing u know im hugged up wit this bitch in tha tub.
Palm Springs, Al Capone's Suite washin her feet.
is this love? somebody's wife fuckin a thug.
hittin it raw, tastin it, wildin out on my charactor, tapin it.
Tyra Banks face is face lift, givin head like she knew me for years.
pillow talk, she let out tears, told me bout her husbands affairs.
millions, she would get, if his neck got slit.
she rolled the equality, then passed the lye ta me.
told me bout her mans life insurance policy.
he stays on the golf course, wears Drakkar Sport.
evenings he drinks his wines on his private resort.
you can take a man here goes the keys you can slip in the rear.
chop a nigga up, yo, meet me somwhere.
so we can make more money, then you could ever see rappin.
split the cash 'n, move to Venezuela, adaptin'
P-11's, A-C-P Shells for blastin.
caught him wit his spanish maid, he had a liter wit a can of spray.
burnin her legs, she tied to the bed.
sex S and M, sadomasochistic
sadistic, yoked her from behind, blew him out exsistance.
his maid cried no, lucky she was blind fold.
naked wit, mad burn marks, all on her thighs yo.
twelve point five million, he kept his funds in the Lloyd's of London.
goes to his wife and his children.
yo i thought, what if shorty gets scared, electric chairs all i vision.
all she'll probably get is psychiatric supervision.
I'll switch the plan, then maybe fly to Switzerland.
fake ID, forge his wife name, catch the next flight the same night.
headed to Spain, nice game, now its back to where we meet again...
Blaze a 50
sit back in a droptop Bezour Bently.
of course wit me, this chick who'd make Bobby divorce Whitney.
top down, nightmare, blow her hair
sky black, stars glow, the face on the moon stare.
fast lane on the nine-five, honey laughs about the cash.
took a blast, out of her coke bag.
snorted it, started screamin yo we almost crashed!
earlier i took the coke out, replaced it wit crushed up glass.
her head nodded down to her chest, slowly she fell asleep.
overwhelmed by greed, put to death.
__SEPERATE__
They wanna shine on it
Shine on it 
Yah
They dug me the soil of mines in the motherland
Now I've placed from one hand to another hand
Illegal smuggling, people struggling, 
Wish they can just throw me back in the mud again
Yeh, this is how we got here
Slave trade and the diamond trade
Every childs afraid, when his mother or father gets sprayed
Forced in the army, young killer brigade
Gets a new name, then he gets his nose glued
His mind can't take what he's going through
Lookin' in the dirt for that ice ol' blue
Then the royal family the ice goes to
This thing has to change, feelin' half ashamed
As i rap with my platinium chain
When you shop for a gift for me
You think about the misery
The same way we made a part our history
We could do the same to the complect ice
But everybody wanna shine right?
Everybody wants heaven, but nobody wants dead
Everybody wants diamonds without the bloodshed
Everybody wants heaven, but nobody wants dead
Everybody wants diamonds without the bloodshed
They wanna shine on em 
Uh
My bbs glimmers on my chest
Two hundred thousand crested watch on my wrist
I wonder how people starve to death
When God blessed the land that lacks the harvest
Their stones are quality, but their homes are poverty
And the whole world ignores the robbery
I bought my girl pretty rocks and she is mad at me
Tear drop shaped uh, perfect clarity
It shocks so many are killed annually
Cause of greed, lust, and pure vanity
Stop talkin' and do something about it
Every holiday season, jewelery stores crowded
Kids snatched from their homes, mutilated alive
Husbands spreaded from wives
Keep a Jesus peace to be fly
But back in the day, there was a time they called us shine
Everybody wants heaven, but nobody wants dead
Everybody wants diamonds without the bloodshed
Everybody wants heaven, but nobody wants dead
Everybody wants diamonds without the bloodshed
They wanna shine on em
__SEPERATE__
:]
Yo, I wonder if Langston Hughes and Alex Haley
got blazed before they told stories
I'm get blazed before I tell y'all stories
I saw on TV today, this man lost his son, his son died
So he had him cremated, took his ashes, and then made it to a Diamond ring
Now he watches his son shine everyday
I just thought about that, while I sit here ashing in this ash tray, yeah
:]
The makin' of a mad band
Intricate stories of DeVante Swing
Ava Gardner, the crashin' of James Dean
Bobby Brown influenced by Rick James and it goes..
Prince wanted Alexander O'Neal to be Morris Day or Jerome
But Alex was puttin' coke in his nose, nigga whylin'
Could be a myth but I swear that the source was close,
Phyllis Hyman killed herself, it was crazy, mommy was bad they say
Donny Hathaway free fall from a balcony, he swings
:]
As the blunt ash falls into the ash tray
I could see my whole life fly past me
Did I... did I keep it gangsta or keep it classy?
And will the money and fame out last me?
The blunt's ash falls down in the ash tray
Will I see my whole life fly past me?
I'm askin' did I keep it gangsta or keep it classy?
Did I?.. Anything else you wanna know, just wanna ask me?
:]
Sam trusted Womack with his main lady
He tossin' in the grave, like, "This is how you repay me?"
A change gon' come, wish you didn't trust me so much
Marvin said "No mountain's high enough, fly stuff"
David Ruffin was punching Tammi Terrell, gave her concussions
While the Funk Brothers was layin' down the percussion
When Flo from the Supremes died, Diana Ross cried
Many people said that she was laughin' inside
]
:]
John F. Kennedy's, enemies dealt with treachery
It interests me, Judy Campbell in Gucci sandals
She's what a temptress be
The death of Ennis Cosby, what a mystery
Or the Chicagoan Harold Washington
Someone is sabotaging them
Watch out for the traps
Larry Troutman killed his brother Roger Troutman
Then he killed himself, that's the end of Zapp
And I wouldn't change a thing, mistakes of the greats
This is what came from their pain
From their hurt we gain, an unfair exchange
]
:]
I could smell old bogey cigars
Laureen Bacall perfumes, smelling just as sweet, ha-ha
Me and my wife K, flying in a drop-top like Ruby and Ossie Davis baby
Knaw'mean? Yo, man. I get smoked out, and start thinkin' about
Hattie McDaniel's got a Oscar, for playin' Mammy in 'Gone With The Wind'
And she didn't get allowed, wasn't even allowed to go to the premiere
Could you believe that? Couldn't go to premiers to her joint
Tssk. Man, you know they were strong back then man
Blunt from my ash tray, nothin' gon' to live past me, yeah, yeah, yeah
__SEPERATE__
Alchemist you know me man
I'm the type of nigga that write rhymes right on the spot in the studio
soon as I hear the track; you know what I'm sayin?
Word but I wanted to bring a couple of books to the studio today
Man I foundthese shits up in the crib man in boxes man
I don't even remember when I was writing these shits
or what's in these shits man probably a bunch of bullshit man
Fuck it check it
How can I trust you when I can't trust me?
Picture myself a old man a O.G.
Some niggas will conversate with liers all day
Time pass...
Soul on ice death threats given by clowns
I guess livin' is prison when you live around clowns
I'm hexed cursed worse I been blessed first
I thought I was abnormal cause I would overcome any tasked called to
So there it is I'ma prince I'ma get slain
Some do minor shit swear they on the top of they game
Ya rhymin' is called "Vagina Monologue"
It kinda supports theories of scary niggas who should lie in the morgue
Rarely y'all come in contact with the real
Since Pun passed he was the last shine of sun I could feel
Yo said there's a few left since music's expressions of life
Damn I wish I took more time to write in my book of rhymes
Oh shit Tina - I been lookin' for this bitch number damn.
No this rhyme is weak..
This is week I remember this bullshit right here
Gandhi was a... what the fu..?
Gandhi was a fool, nigga fight to the death
The US Army is a school that teach ya plights of conquest
The money's ya religion sky the limit live life
Numbers is big business makes the poor live trife
The glimmers of hope provoke those without dollars to dream
Through your existence become wealthy knowledge is king
Pimps and card sharks thiefs murderers with hard luck
Addicts and fiends prostitutes passin' for teens is my society
Cops that shoot blacks is routine for noteriety
Grow up watchin' well dressed niggas with charms
Beautiful ladies on their arms
Dangerous new cars was my fantasy for Nas
Rubbin my lips with Campophenique
Still behind the ears wet turned out to be
Pioneers vets amongst hustlers crack sellers and liers and squares...
My people be projects or jail never Harvard or Yale
Pardon me type in my 2way while I'm chargin' my cell
It's hard to be iced up with Gucci god poverty's real
I can't fight you cause you would sue me niggas be groupies
I see imitators tryin' to make albums spittin' my style
And they don't even realize that I notice they stealing Nas' shit
I pump some Rick James with that Teena Marie
My nina lean on me like Swoop it's crap this can't be
My book of rhymes
This can't be my book of rhymes writing this bullshit!
Nah neva that fuck that, aw why you laughin' Alchemist?
Huh you a funny nigga... naw yeah
I'm tellin' you I'ma come up with some new shit now
Fuck that I'ma write again now fuck that
I musta been high on some shit mmm what the fuck is this?
Look how we treat pregnancy women in the 'hood
Our values so low our values are no good
Things our mothers told us we shoulda heeded
Cause now we need it
We older almost able t...
I'm jealous of you how come you so beautiful?
Smelling fresh youthful intelligent while I'm stressin' and shit
Aiyo I envy you 'cause all you do is smile and things come your way
Such a innocent child is what some say
I get upset 'cause I just want to be treated the way you are
Like a star not a worry in this world thus far
But wait a minute we both need ya mother's attention
I must be crazy jealous of my own baby infant
__SEPERATE__
]
Yeah... ay yo Jungle... ay yo Wiz...
Come on man... Let's do this
It's a Braveheart party y'all
C'mon
]
Throw your hands up cuz we wanna dance
Don't be afraid just take a chance
Cuz this beat will rock your body
Get up on the floor and party
Now y'all tell me what y'all wanna do
Thinkin' while I have a drink or two
Throw your hands up everybody
Get up on the floor and party
]
I move at night, respect my gangsta
Ready for whatever you bring, the mood is right
The club is righteous, tight with family
Squeezin on big old bubbles with no panties
Ladies who's sexually free
And once in a while live on the wild side, kinky & nasty
Middle fingers up and say "Fuck the world"
Throw your hands up, they can't fuck with you girl
And my fellas, two time felons, two nine tote and lethal
Quick to leave you wide open, if you gettin' tore down
Blowin' a blunt cloud, and the DJ's makin' you feel thugged out
Put yo hands up
]
I pull in a V12 drop all red
Look at ma with that cat paw tat on'er leg
Come here girl can I kiss you, let me lick you
Show you what your body made for, you're official
You could be my baby mama lookin like that
What you drink, champagne or Cognac
What you like dancin diamonds, Dolce Gabbana
Fendi, Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Prada
A nigga like Jungle to always come thru
Shine in yo hood whenever the fuck you want to
Cause I'ma B.R.A.V., E.H.E.A.R.T. from QB
Put'em up...
Party all night 
Let's drink, no fights 
Party all night 
Let's drink, no fights 
]
I'm blaze, haze for days
Blackout thinkin' of ways to get paid
Mac out corner I got it's all laid
Shorty, with a nice round ass in my face
Now do she want me to touch her?
Or do she want me to see?
Fuck is she comin wit me
A true BHG Wiz, not complex
Chin checks if it get hectic
Nigga Braveheart respected
Get bent at the bar, talk shit, walk it
And if I can't talk it, the false big cop a case
I'm here to blaze, roll up a dutch and take it to the face
Throw yo hands up
__SEPERATE__
In America you'll never be free
Middle fingers up, fuck the police
Damn, can't a nigga just breathe?
Braveheart, still QB's Finest
Grinding, enough diamonds to change the climate
Not only do you see a nigga shining, you can see a nigga breathe
Jewels enchanted like they was new from Atlantis
Cruise with the hammer, jealous heart, they can't stand him
Haters are scandalous, damn, can't a nigga just breathe?
To all my niggas getting money in the streets
Middle fingers up, fuck the police
Light up my trees, and I just breathe
I twist 'em, baby mama beef victim
Chronic leaf hittin', all kinds of heat with him, wisdom
From pot to piss in to high position
Intense hustle, it's pain like a pinched muscle
'Til it rains and my Timbs stain my socks
'Til I dodge enough shots, and the presiding judge slams a mallet
And says life I'ma guap, then I cop
Then I yacht, Then I dock
Island hopping away from nightmare holders
Or cowboy slingers who shoot up any club
That see they names ring loud on some FBI poster
Must be on Ex or he coked up, suggesting I post a
Bail, I'm like yes, 'cause we soldiers
We just getting older, in time, we still in our prime
I can't afford a new arrest on my folder
Nigga breathe
I'm fresh out of city housing, and have too many options
Pennies on a pension or penitentiary bounded
Plenty henna in me, envy was simply they trend, see
My enemy was every hater that was bigger than me
The high life, the fly life
Pierre Hardy, imitation of Christ
Ice-wear gaudy, since '94 flossy
The Lex was an excellent choice, now fast forward me
The pestilence of the ghetto informed me
As a shorty, to push nothin' less than a 740
With fresh linens, sip Pellegrinos with Airs on
They sick, mixing they water with airborne
Oh, they so sick!
Look how I got 'em going crazy, look at that!
You gotta let it out, stress...ain't good man
You gotta breathe
Breathe...
America, we gotta be free
Breathe...
__SEPERATE__
"The light is there."
See I come from Mississippi
I was young and runnin' wild
Ended up in New York City, where I had my first child
I named the boy Nasir, all the boys call him Nas
I told him as a youngster, he'll be the greatest man alive
Let's go!... Hey-Hey-Hey-Hey -- 
Tribrary of these rap skits, styles I mastered
Many brothers snatched it up and tried to match it
But I'm still number one, everyday real
Speak what I want, I don't care what y'all feel
'Cause I'm my own master, my Pop told me be your own boss
Keep integrity at every cost, and his home was Natchez Mississippi
Did it like Miles and Dizzy, now we gettin' busy
Bridging The Gap from the blues, to jazz, to rap
The history of music on this track
Born in the game, discovered my father's music 
Like Prince searchin' through boxes of Purple Rain
But my Minneapolis was The Bridge, home of the Superkids
Some are well-known, some doin' bids
I mighta ended up on the wrong side of the tracks
If Pops wouldn't've pulled me back an said yo
Greatest man alive 
Gre-Gre-Gre-Gre-Greatest man alive!
The blues came from gospel, gospel from blues
Slaves are harmonizin' them ah's and ooh's
Old school, new school, know school rules
All these years I been voicin' my blues
I'm a artist from the start, Hip-Hop guided my heart
Graffiti on the wall, coulda ended in Spoffard, juvenile delinquent
But Pops gave me the right type'a tools to think with
Books to read, like X and stuff
'Cause the schools said the kids had dyslexia
In art class I was a compulsive sketcher of
Teachers in my homeroom, I drew pix to mess them up
'Cause none'a them would like my style
Read more books than the curriculum profile
Said, "Mr. Jones please come get your child
'Cause he's writin' mad poems and his verses are wild"
Greatest man ? The great-greatest man alive
Hey-Hey-Hey -- My Poppa was not a Rollin' Stone
He been around the world blowin' his horn, still he came home
Then he got grown, changed his name to Olu
Come on, tell 'em 'bout the places you gone to
I been to Saudi Arabia, Mozambique
Madagascar, Paris, Greece
The Middle Africa is where we lived
Better known as Queenbridge
Nas, Nas you don't stop
Olu Dara in the house, you don't stop
Muddy Waters' Howling Wolf you don't stop
From the Blues to Street Hop you don't stop
Tell 'em Pop 
See I come from Mississippi 
I was young and runnin' wild 
Ended up in New York City 
Where I had my first child 
I named the boy Nasir 
All the boys call him Nas 
I told him as a youngster
He'll be the greatest man alive 
Greatest man alive 
Gre-Gre-Gre-Gre-Greatest man alive!
Rest In Peace Ray Charles
__SEPERATE__
I guess you knew and blew a good thing, baby
Bye baby, I guess you know why I walked away
When we walked to the altar that was an awesome day
Did counselling, couldn't force me to stay
Something happens when you say I do, we go astray
Why do we mess it up, we was friends we had it all
Reason you don't trust men, that was your daddy fault
He in the grave, let it go, he no longer living
Said you caught him cheating with mom and other women
Fuck that gotta do with us
Here's the keys to the newest truck
Birkin bags, we burnin' cash, now baby do it up
No matter who you fuck, that was before me
Wanted you as my shawty since I saw you screamin'
"Hate you so much right now"
Should've saw the man in angry black women
Ashes of a demon, I'm leaving
I guess you knew and blew a good thing, baby 
You know I'm saying bye-bye 
Cause I'm sayin' bye-bye 
Cause I'm sayin' bye-bye
I guess you knew and blew a good thing, baby
Bye baby, I guess you know why I had to leave
Seven months in your pregnancy, 'bout to have my seed
Let's take it back some years, rewind it to the happy years
You and your Star Trak fam, I'm thinking you cats are weird
Same time, different year, I was diggin' ya flow
Then I tatted you on my arm so niggas would know
I thought no one could stop us, matching gold watches
I was your Johnny Depp, you was my Janis Joplin
Yet, the cuter version, yet I knew you personally
Better than you knew yourself and I knew this for certain
Crib in the Dominican you got away from everybody
You screaming at the racist cops in Miami was probably
The highlight of my life, like "Hi yo look at my wife"
Gangsta, me and twenty cops 'bout to fight, crazy night
Bailed you out, next morning we got clean
Like it never happened and later we at that Heat game
Just another day in the life of two people in love
But it wasn't enough, so baby guess what
Listen, could you imagine writing your deposition?
Divorce Lawyer telling you how this thing gonna be ending?
With you paying out the ass, and I'm talking half
Not some but half. No serious, half
Half of your soul, half of your heart you leaving behind
It's either that or die, I wanted peace of mind
And all I seen was selfish cowards, under they breath
Saying "why did Nas trust her? ", but look at yourself, speak louder bruh
You live with your babymoms and scared to make an honest woman out of her
And make her your bride, fake bitch you ain't even a lie
At least I can say I tried plus enjoyed the ride
Plus we got our little boy, my little joy and pride
He got my nose, my grill, your colour, your eyes
Next go round I hope I pick the truest type and watch me do it all again
It's a beautiful life, aight
Goodbye
__SEPERATE__
There comes a day in your life when you wanna kick back
Straw hat on the porch when you old perhaps
Wanna gather your thoughts, have a cold one
Brag, to your grandkids about how life is golden
So I will light a cigar in the corridor of the crib
Pictures on the wall of all the things that I did
All the money and fame, 8 by 10's
of the whole Rat Pack inside of a big frame
Collidin with big names that could've made your career stop
All that, and your man is still here and I'm still hot
Wow, I need a moment y'all
See I almost felt a tear drop
When was the last time you heard a real anthem
Nas, the millionaire, the mansion
When was the last time you heard your boy Nas rhyme
Never on schedule, but always on time
These streets hold my deepest days
This hood taught me golden ways
Made me, truly this is what made me
Break me, not a thing's gonna break me 
Ohh, I'm that history I'm that block
I'm that lifestyle I'm that spot
I'm that kid by the number spot
That's my past that made me hot
Here's my life long anthem
Can't forget about you
 
Can't forget about the old school, Bam, Cas, Melle Mel, Flash
Rocksteady spinnin on they back
Can't forget when the first rap Grammy went to Jazzy, Fresh Prince
Fat Boys broke up, rap hasn't been the same since
So irregular, how it messed you up
when Mr. T became a wrestler
Can't forget about Jordan's retirement
The shot Robert Horry to win the game in the finals kid
Some things are forever, some things are not
It's the things we remember that gave the world shock
They stay in a place in your mind so snug
Like who the person was with whom you first make love
Unforgettable, unsubmittable, I go by N now
Just one syllable, it's the end cause the game's tired
It's the same vibe, Good Times had right after James died
That's why the gangsta rhymers ain't inspired
Heinous crimes help record sales more than creative lines
And I don't wanna keep bringing up the greater times
But I'm a dreamer nostalgic with the state of mind
The past the past enough of it, aight then
But nothing gives me chills like Douglas and Tyson
Or Mike when his talk was live
Or when he first did the moon walk on Motown 25
That's why, darling, it's incredible
That someone so unforgettable
Thinks that I am unforgettable too
__SEPERATE__
Yea, niggaz want to talk about this rap shit
Niggaz want to talk about this money
About these cars, these homes, these labels
Clothes, sneakers, big money shit
Now everybody tryin' to get rich
Now get rich niggaz, fuck it
Some rap pioneers, be them crackheads
When they speak, you see missin' teeth
Silver chain with a silver piece
Niggaz your grandfather's age
They pants still hangin' down they legs talkin' about they ain't paid
And they hate you, 'cause they say, you ain't pay dues
And ..... was stealin' and robbin' them
I feel it's a problem we gotta resolve
Hip-Hop been dead, we the reason it died
Wasn't Sylvia's fault or because MC's skills are lost
It's because we can't see ourselves as the boss
Deep-rooted through slavery, self-hatred
The Jewish stick together, friends in high places
We on some low level shit
We don't want niggaz to ever win
See, everybody got a label
Everybody's a rapper but few flow fatal
It's fucked up, it all started from two turntables
When they crown you - and you rise up to your position
When they knight you - then you go to fight, go to war, don't petition
 - 
Carry on, ca-carry on, 
, when you rep what we rep
Then 
Now some of these new rappers got their caps flipped backwards
Wit their fingers intertwined in some gang-sign madness
I got an exam, let's see if y'all pass it
Let's see who can quote a Daddy Kane line the fastest
Some of you new rappers, I don't understand your code
You have your man shoot you, like in that Sopranos episode
Do anythin' to get in the game, mixtapes, you spit hate
Against bosses; hungry fucks are moraless
You should be tossed in a pit full of unfortunate vocalists
Niggaz, I coulda wrote your shit; I had off-time, was bored wit this
I coulda made my double-LP, just by samplin' different parts of Nautilus
Still came five on the charts with zero audience
The lane was open and y'all was droppin' that garbage shit
Y'all got awards for your bricks - it got good to ya
You started tellin' them bigger dogs to call it quits?! WHAT?
When they crown you - and you rise up to your position
When they knight you - then you go to fight, go to war, don't petition
 - 
Carry on, ca-carry on, 
, when you rep what we rep
Then 
Now niggaz got the studio poppin', it's mad clearer
Engineers got his earplugs and still hear us
The live-in-the-park sound, versus the studio state of art sound
We on the charts now; from British Walkers and Argyles
Look at us rap stars now, wit our black cars now
Fortune 500 listed, brunches, sip Cipriani's
Sippin', blunted, with rich white guys around me
Thick white girls around me, Chinese lined up
Because I'm what?, every dime lust
We used to be a ghetto secret; can't make my mind up
If I want that or the whole world to peep it
Now 
Fuck a bum wack rapper makin' his career out of dissin'
Peace to the strugglin' artists and dead one's gone, we miss 'em
I promise I 
When they crown you - and you rise up to your position
When they knight you - then you go to fight, go to war, don't petition
 - 
Carry on, ca-carry on, 
, when you rep what we rep
Then
__SEPERATE__
Where is he?
The man who was just like me
I heard he was hiding somewhere I can’t see
Where is he?
The man who was just like me
Heard he was hiding somewhere I can’t see
And I’m alone, and I realize that when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry
Yes I’m alone, and I realize when I get home
I wanna go through my red and my cherry
I want some who like the champagne I like
My a-alike, someone to talk me off the bridge any day or night
She teach me how to live, she ain’t afraid of life
Not easily impressed with the rich and famous life
Cause she done been there and heard all the rumors before
She love or she ride out with me on my music tour
She like the herbs natural medicine, she cooking good
She tell me everything is cool and looking good
For real, the world so ill
Yeah I want a girl so real
Who not after material wealth, but get dough still
Or maybe an educator, a lady with etiquette
Who can be from out the hood, or even work for the president
As long as there’s no selfishness
Yes, as long as her love for the people is deep rooted and evident
You can be easily recruited, you’re heaven sent
Your smile, put me on ease
You’re the woman I need, but where is she
I hate when people write me hostile texts on the count of my lifestyle’s perception
Invade my personal life, out of the question, what are they expecting
I be tryna reply them, and they never suppose I get my quiet time in
They think forever I’m rolling in dough, swimming in a pool of cash
God, wouldn’t they know, or am I a fool or as
I’m well known, got people coming at me mad
I had a tell homes, I don’t keep a cell phone
My bad, I drag, off the l and try to silence it
The noise of my head, the curse of the talented
Strong communicator, vagabond, I gallivant around the equator
And that would get me off the radar
It’s so intense, I’m on my Lilo and Stitch
Pour my Pino Grigio with some lime what is this?
An immaculate version of me and my baby
With all respect cause you the only one that gets me
Yeah, yeah, let’s pour some cherry wine
Everything’s good, everything’s fine
Yeah, yeah we bring it every time
Yeah, pour a little cherry wine
Yeah, Hey yo Salaam, yea, I think they know the time
Everything’s good, everything’s fine
Yeah, pour a little cherry wine, yeah
Life is good, life is good, yeah
Life is good, no matter what
Life is good, life is good
Life if good, yeah
No matter what
Life is good
Man who was just like me
I heard he is hiding somewhere I can’t see
And I’m alone
And I realize that when I get home
When I wanna go to my red and my cherry
Yeah-oh-oh-ooooh
The man who was just like me
Cause I know he was hiding somewhere I can’t see
And I’m alone
And I realize when I get home
That I wanna go to my red and my cherry
__SEPERATE__
And as a special treat this evening
I have asked America's foremost young poet
to read his latest poem for us
"ladies and gentlemen.."
"Na-Na-Na-Nastradamus"
"Everybody watch him"
"ladies and gentlemen.."
"Na-Na-Na-Nastradamus"
"We-we-we came a long way"
"ladies and gentlemen.."
"Na-Na-Na-Nastradamus"
"Everybody watch him"
"ladies and gentlemen.."
"Na-Na-Na-Nastradamus"
Yo..
Yo.. yo..
Power and crime, the thugs slingin powder and dimes
Twenties of D, is yo' niggaz wilder than mine?
My niggaz bust nines, puff lye and stick up cowards
for they shine, you resist, then you push up flowers
I'm like Lou Cabrasi, Vito's best hit-man
That's "Godfather" shit, back seat, next lit plans
Revolvers spit, I'm too tough to bargain with
And you don't want the God to pull up the cars that's sick
Arms and wrists is lit up, Queensbridge Kings
Plaques awards applause when I do my thing
Streets is black as midnight, the concrete gray
with stains of blood and germ and piss all day
Come on the ave, get sized up, plus appraised
Duck and pray that my guns dont' bust your way
Niggaz with names, livin off reputation
Sometimes gotta remind you ain't nothin changin
 
"ladies and gentlemen.."
"Na-Na-Na-Nastradamus"
"Everybody watch him"
]
If you ill come get me, cause I ain't runnin
If your gun's off the hook then we'll both be gunnin
Come get me if you real, cause I ain't scared
It's all fair in love and war
 - and I'm well prepared
 - we can take it there
You don't like me clown?  Now you wanna take me down?
If I bring my face around, you gon' do what?  You butt
Your crew knew I blew up, I been shinin - baseball diamonds
Dick rings for your chicklings
Niggaz know what my nine pearl handle's about
Fuck you say girlie mouth?  Get it krunk like the Dirty South
And I know you see me flossed out, multi-milli-i
Hear your bitch talk about me, you give her the cold eye?
Girls dig you, imagine what she feel for me?
You make hot songs, but she know you steal from me
Who ill as me?  I wild on haters in album three
Next level - I take y'all niggaz to 3-D
Can't find a nigga shook from Queens
I'll be with the most grimy killers 
 and they all look clean
who put bombs underneath cars, if you want beef then start
Your next stop is to the graveyard
You too feminine to kill again, jail got you soft
You talk but you scared to go back up North
Keep your face twisted, but you don't really want nuttin
Talk a bunch of shit motherfucker and stop frontin
You don't wanna flip again, and sell drugs again
Be on the run again, catch you at the Comfort Inn
Shoot up your door, bust in on you and your whore
Put y'all in bags, clean the blood off of the floor
So play tough, I want y'all to get out of line
I got nines, every color shape and design
I sent killers every race to put one in your spine
Two in your ear, get your crew, who do I fear?
Nobody never get involved and none of em dyin
I think like you do, roll with about two irons
Catch me flyin, high in the aircraft winin
- and dinin, you die, then we laugh, you bitch-ass
to rich-ass to gauze up, your stab wounds
While I'm gettin head, in a Lear jet, bathroom
With all my goons, all my ice, and suitcases
full of paper, not money it's bank statements
The Illmatic that explains how we rock
Yachts and co-ops, we buy the hood and sell you a block
 
"ladies and gentlemen.."
"Na-Na-Na-Nastradamus"
"Everybody watch him"
"ladies and gentlemen.."
"Na-Na-Na-Nastradamus"
"We-we-we came a long way"
"ladies and gentlemen.."
"Na-Na-Na-Nastradamus"
"Everybody watch him"
"ladies and gentlemen.."
"Na-Na-Na-Nastradamus"
 "ladies and gentlemen.."
 "ladies and gentlemen.."
{"Hydro Drops" weed skit follows}
__SEPERATE__
'Come Take a Ride' you can fit up in my two-seater
Nas a thug you can catch me in my wife beater
Blowin' my drugs you know how I like the cheeba-cheeba
And if you hatin' and I prolly don't like it either
Fresh dressed like a million bucks
Threw on my black jeans and Timberland Chucks
I got some moneys in my pockets got some money to spend
Got some hoochies I'ma hook up wit quarter to ten
My daughter wit me and we came from the mall
Don't need no baby mama drama
Kissed her on the cheek and dropped her back off
I hit the car wash at half past four
Some kid was star struck
I pulled off my grass and let 'em puff sour
My deuce-deuce rims shinin' happy as they can be
I went to the famous Project that they call QB
I saw some brothers gamblin' on the curb
A shorty pulled a pistol took they paper, nigga that's my word
I turned the corner wit my burner and palm
Niggaz know my name and game I'm a murderous Don
Saw my peoples then extended my arm
Pulled on the sidewalk, no time to talk
If y'all comin' come on; come on!
Talk like a champion, walk like a champion
Body like a God and I promise that Nas'll a hit you off
Flow like a gangsta, brum bum bum bum bum
Bustin' black dummies and dustin' all y'all niggaz off
I've been around a couple of times, know how things go
I dealt wit 'em all on different occasion
The same things'll come in different stages
So when them things rise up or pop up
I look right past as if its weightless
Meanin' it won't intervene the thought process
So I can levitate to more important topics
Laughin' the Face of Death, flash back of car crashes
20 L's Grey Goose vodka and tall glasses
Dippin' in the twilight
Wit gangsta smokin' weed in my ride light
The same stuff is still a bitch livin' like I'm rich
Bang broads call me Mr. International, ghetto stars come on
Slow like I robbed Brinks truck, haters all fold
Cuz my .9 is aimed up, I left four seasons
My niggaz bleedin' cause of four reasons
Jealousy, hate, laziness and envy even
Up in the Benzie squeezin' a couple Henny wit my comrad
Conversatin' on what we believe in
Like honey in the way she's been cause he's spend
G's a week in the make freak knees bend
I told her to pimp hard, see the hoes we left in the room
They nymphomaniacs prolly lick homegirls womb
As respect just phone 'em and leave 'em & shit
They not your wife keep your cash nigga don't even trip
Pass the grass accordingly, you saw police
But when I puffed and coughed
Seconds later screamin' "Fuck the Lord"
Got CD's, TV's, guns tucked in the floor
Once again I hit the streets and y'all don't see no more
So uh...
__SEPERATE__
And I've got studios to write in 
And I've got news for rejoicing
Now a new sun is rising
I count my blessings
That I'm safe when I'm resting
Furniture in my nesting
But by force I'm suggesting
Ya count your blessings
I've got love and assurance
I've got new health insurance
And I've got strength and endurance
So I count my blessings
And give thanks to the master
That through all the disaster
We're still here together after
Better count your blessings
Cause yo this year, can't wait 'til it gets here
7/21/09, my first song will shine
And it's amazing I'm about to be raisin'
Another main man and like his dad they'll praise him
And some will hate him, just cause we buildin' a nation
Like Bob did with Damian
The world will embrace him, girls'll chase him
Forsee, they will not break him
And when I'm not around, you look for God and thank him
And I've got somewhere to dress for,
And I've got no need to stress for
And so I'll always put my best forth
And count my blessings
And they'll be no need for tissues
'Cause there will be no further issues
If you got someone who miss you,
Man, count your blessings.
I've got love and assurance
I've got new health insurance
And I've got strength and endurance
So I count my blessings
And give thanks to the master
That you are the disaster
We're still here together after
Better count your blessings
You wishin' you were sittin' in the top position
Picture perfect, nothing less 'cause you deserve it
Without the Hermes, you'd have a hurtin'
You knew that you was destined for greatness, for certain
You see the over-zealous, they be thirstin', caught up in emotion
You keepin' your composure like Gershwin
Songs by Earth Wind keep you in the zone, writing verses
So when your pocket's light, know that you have a heavy purpose
We've got Sunday school and daycare
We've got pension and welfare
And though not all will play the game fair
Still I count my blessings
I've joy in abundance
I've got life full of substance
I've got meetings and functions
So I count my blessings
I've got something to live for
I've got surplus to give more
And we're all welcome through His door
So I count my blessings
And give thanks to the master
That you are the disaster
We're still here together after
So I count my blessings
I think you lookin' too hard for it
With the double RR under your garage door
Appreciate the things you work hard for
Hey, count your blessings
Count your blessings
So don't be mad if you ain't fly y'all
You got the means to reach the level I'm on
You should know there's only one Nas y'all
But count your blessings, count your blessings
And I've got studios to voice in
And I've got news for rejoicing
Now a new sun is rising
I count my blessings
That I'm safe when I'm resting
Furniture in my nesting
But by force I'm suggesting
Ya count your blessings
I've got love and assurance
I've got new health insurance
And I've got strength and endurance
So I count my blessings
And give thanks to the master
That you are the disaster
We're still here together after
Better count your blessings
__SEPERATE__
One more time, one more time
Huh, one more time, huh
One more time
I dream of the day I could go back to when I was born
Laying in your arms, wishing you was here today mom
Wish you'd appear
Just for a second from heaven my tears would be gone
I wouldn't be rapping this song
I'd be happy driving up to your 8 bed room mansion
Up late, laughing bout the hard time we faced
The galaxy is so enchanting beyond, Galileo's understanding
Past the milky way and all the planets
There's something out there greater
But only god knows, scientist claim we came from apes
But they lies though, that was part of our conversation
I spark one up and start blazing
Thinking of how amazing she was
A angel gave me love
I'm thankful, to ever know a women so real
I pray when I marry my wife'll have one of your skills
But mom you could never be replaced
I'd give my life up
Just to see you one more day
To have...
One more dance with you mama
If I could only have
One more dance with you mama
Praying, wish that I could have
One more dance with you mama
If I could only have
One more dance with you mama
I wish you were here,
I miss you more each second I breathe
You resting in peace forever I accepted you free
A blessing to me, I see you dressed in all white
Smiling at me, happy knowing everything's all right
If only I could hear your voice and your laughter
Just one more time, my chest would be filled up with sunshine
April 7, 02
That's when the gates of heaven opened up for you to stroll through
Beautiful Anne Jones
Job is done, raising ghetto kids in the hood
You was my strength to carry on and now I'm good
Job well done, you lived through you sons and your grandchildren
Jesus finally got his bride, mommy dance with em
And you've been my guide threw all the trouble I faced
They playing our song the lifebeat my hand on your waist
I grab your other hand and try not to step on your toes
Spin you around with my eyes closed
Dreaming I could have
I love you forever mom
You will always live threw me ... always
Huh, huh huh, yea
__SEPERATE__
Check it out
I call it
Yeah
Yeah
Yeah, Yeah
I call it “Shit for Niggas with Daughters”
I call this “Shit for Niggas with Daughters”
I call this “Shit for Niggas with Daughters”
I call this “Shit for Niggas with Daughters”
I saw my daughter send a letter to some boy her age
Who locked up, first I regretted it then caught my rage, like
How could I not protect her from this awful phase?
Never tried to hide who I was, she was taught and raised like
A princess, but while I’m on stage I can’t leave her defenseless
Plus she’s seen me switching women, pops was on some pimp shit
She heard stories of her daddy thuggin’
So if her husband is a gangster can’t be mad, I love her
Never, for her I want better, homie in jail- dead that
Wait till he come home, you can see where his head’s at
Niggas got game, they be tryna live
He seen your mama crib, plus I’m sure he know who your father is
Although you real, plus a honest kid
Don’t think I’m slow, I know you probably had that chronic lit
You 17, I got a problem with it
She looked at me like I’m not the cleanest father figure but she rocking with it
This for niggas wit’ daughters
I call this, shit for niggas wit’ daughters
Yo, not sayin’ that our sons are less important
Shit for niggas wit’ daughters
I call this, shit for niggas wit’ daughters
I call it, not sayin’ that our sons are less important
This morning I got a call, nearly split my wig
This social network said “Nas go and get ya kid”
She’s on Twitter, I know she ain’t gon post no pic
Of herself underdressed, no inappropriate shit, right
Her mother cried when she answered
Said she don’t know what got inside this child’s mind, she planted
A box of condoms on her dresser then she Instagrammed it
At this point I realized I ain’t the strictest parent
I’m too loose, I’m too cool with her
Shoulda drove on time to school with her
I thought I dropped enough jewels on her
Took her from private school, so she can get a balance
To public school, they too nurture teen talents
They grow fast
One day she’s ya little princess, next day she talking boy business
What is this?
They say the coolest playas and foulest heart breakers in the world
God get’s us back, he makes us have precious little girls
And I ain’t tryna mess ya thing up
But I just wanna see you dream up
I finally understand
It ain’t easy to raise a girl as a single man
Nah, the way mothers feel for they sons, how fathers feel for they daughters
When he date, he straight, chip off his own papa
When she date, we wait behind the door with the sawed off
Cuz we think no one is good enough for our daughters
Love
__SEPERATE__
To my niggas
To my niggas
What! What!
Looking back in time, when I had on my shines
I saw you standing there
I never tried to diss you, you didn't need your pistol
Why did you have to take it there
But then again, it was just my imagination
When my crew told me it was you that was player hating
Then we had to have that terrible confrontation
There's nothing I can do to help this situation...
Stay scheming 
Niggas wanna get at me
Its been awhile since the last time we hung out
Full of weed, drinking henny until we all passed out
Stretch bently, Queens clique, pushing mean whips
And hoe I'm with, glad who see she with
Shorty with the don
Me and horse switch cars
Jazz ruff for the six, this is it par
Thug nigga never thought I get this far
Who is that icing me from over there in the fog?
You got the mack god, you got the gat par
Dam, why they gotta do it to the black god
Everytime we chilling niggas want to act hard
My nigga Jungle known to slap a nigga back-ward
So we chill pay no mind, think about about shit
I'm for the love of it
Stubborn niggas always plotting on the brother tip
Can't even chill cause niggas just
Stay scheming
Niggas wanna get at me
Stay scheming
Niggas wanna kidnap me
But they never do it motherfuckers...
__SEPERATE__
I know all y'all hearin me, none of y'all scare me
Cause niggaz die daily
Comin out with my guns real early
Layin in there stair way
Cause niggaz die daily, so I got niggaz around you
Mad like they back from their man you killed just a year ago today
So call it death anniversary, rushin to emergency niggaz die daily
What if I told you that AZ didnt exist
And I put him their played it like a ventriloquist
Cause niggaz spit fake shit and y'all respect it
I spit that real shit and y'all won't buy the record
What if me and the rapper homie was really cool
And we used that whole thing as a media tool
would you say I was a sucka or say I was savvy
If I told you motherfucka's that me n K wasnt married
What if Jungle wrote my shit, and I'm really illiterate
And the whole Nas catalogue was just an experiment
What if I really died when Ill Will got shot
This is Will rhymin right now, Nas is chillin wit 'Pac
What If I did all the Advertisement thrown My Way
And I boned every chick that would throw me some play
I'd have to load another AK cause Niggaz be jealous
Cause we real like them Brazil favelas
Scream at the nigga breathe, dont breathe ya last breath
But you know a nigga dead when he pee on himself
Blatter givin up on 'em, face start to puff on 'em
Bloatin up, nigga cold as fuck tryin hold on 'em
Loosen up the nine on outa his fingers
Angels comin only he can hear the song that they singin
And it hurts me, the planet cursed B
This ya niggaz first year anniversary
This how it goes down in every ghetto
So its quite natural for rappers to settle
And make pop music nursery hooks
Cause back then we thought the only thing that worked was the jooks
They tryna pimp a game that done pimped them first
I'm pimpin the industry so they acknowledge our worth
The next anniversary we all unite
Let's all get together or we loosin the fight
__SEPERATE__
This is a journey into the worlds most largest
And notorious projects, Queensbridge
Listen while Nas saves his hood from the most
Cowardest rappers
He held a mass appeal and a little boy smile
Depressed has a complex his mouth was foul
You need to stay around I feel like telling some stories
First theres this arrogent fuck, his names Cory
Hung around my mans Like and Big Trevor
Trevors still locked up, Likes getting his cheddar
Cory changed his name to arr, whatever
Cornchip, Buckwheat lookalike, its Mega
Right Mega was his name sorry about that
But its so hard to put a cowards name in my rap
Always acting tough, a jokester be fronting
He got snuffed, he got shot in the thigh, he did nothing
But thats Nas always looking out for breadrin
Cause when brethren don't return love it don't stress him
Cause gangstas do gangsta shit, real recognize real
Still laughing to the bank and shit
Back to Cor, got him a deal but his rhymes was whack
Def Jam mad that he signed the contract
Now he got jealous and mad at my shine
Making silly tapes, I'm always on his mind
Nonsense, not to be obnoxious kid
Mega for the record you could suck my dick
Bitch you from around the way its sad what this do to me
But Queensbridge, we gotta have unity
They say the bridge is over, the bridge is over
Nah this is a time we destroy and rebuild it
They say, the bridge is over, the bridge is over
Nah we the strongest hood but weak niggas kill it
So they say, the bridge is over, the bridge is over
Since we on the subject of traders and flunkies
Mega aint the only faggot in my hood dummies
Theres plenty that wanna be me but cannot
Its like King Arther and Knight Sir Lance-A-Lot
Lefty and Donnie Brasco, Gotti and Paul
Before I woulda told you Prodigy's my dog
Through the ups and downs, robberies and all
Though I always knew he wanted my downfall
He would say his little slick shit and act real funny
For what nigga you're butt and it got back to me
Asking a Braveheart to get back your jewelry
You aint from my hood, don't even rep Q.B.
Nature moved to Marcy
Man dick riding Nature, nothing else to say
Man Nature moved to Marcy
Back with ass niggas in fear
Fuck them niggas go head with the progam man proceed
Old lady pocketbook snatcher, car thief
Of course we aint friends, you never stood on no blocks
Streets or corners with zombies, ghouls and gangstas
Cops, drug dealers with pools of blood anger
Just fills me when niggas let out of town to set shot
And get filthy rich, its just not
No more morals, no loyalty, no more community
Queensbridge, we gotta have unity
I put the name on the map after Marly and Shan
Q.B. before the ROC had one jam
Before the Death Row and Bad Boy beef
Had streets locked with raw talent, I laugh at the weak
So this about cleaning up house, my own backyard
Famous home of rap stars well known be getting robbed
P how many times aint you shamed that
Jungle was busting his gun to get your weak chain back
They dont respect you a checks due for me for your fame
Mega I hope you blow so I'm saying your name 
Hoes play your position cause you'll never be king
Even Jigga want the crown, ?? poor thing
I'm representing Queensbridge U.S.A.
Where two sk's go off every day new flesh lay
All you little roaches and rats 
Besides my man Ricky, Nas the true ruler is back
So haters say
The bridge is over my dick, Bridge'll never be over
Long as I'm alive and breathing, Braveheart to the graveyard
I'm the William Wallace of this shit
Ayo P, Prodigy I got love for you man, I love you man
You know what I'm saying, just get them unloyal niggas
From out your circle, you can't save everybody
Niggas invited you to the hood, rep it right my nigga
Be untouchable my nigga, so it be Mobb for life for real
And thats real, ayo Nature I can't hold your hand through this shit man
I'm not your father man, be your own man, stand on your own two
I believe in you, believe in yourself nigga or dont even rep this
Ayo Mega you wanna be a gangsta?  Theres real gangsta
Shit going on in the streets man, yo niggas is in the grind
Where you be at man?  Niggas be bucking
Why you never bucking, where you be at man?
All of a sudden you the motherfuckin Neo Brown of the fucking hood
Its disgusting man, stay out the magazines
Keep my name out your motherfucking mouth
Theres no more room for jealousy, we destroying and rebuilding
That means the cowards get out and the real niggas stay
Niggas been hating me since I been nine, shining
with suede motherfucking balles on in silks
I'ma always be the young don, dont be like the niggas on the other side
Hating me cause I'm beautiful, real niggas in Queensbridge
You niggas come up and get this money and move on baby
Q.B.
__SEPERATE__
"Two-thousand-four, yeah.  L, whattup?"
 "Prophesy!"
 "Yeah."
 "Prophesy baby!"
Disciple, Disciple  Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Word to mama, any lineup of rhymers
Could bring any drama, anytime, the city's mine
Nas Is Like, Love Undying, Money's My Bitch
In Thugz Mansion, thugs dancin' around the fly shit
Pharaoh garment's Prada, Egyptian camelback-riders
Pyramid architects, Perignon bottles, money, jewelry want me to come
Get me, hit me but don't miss me, you history
Lead flowin' around like a Frisbee, Italian dons from Sicily kiss me
This ain't 50, this ain't Jigga, this ain't Diddy, this ain't Pretty
Pain, power, pussy and pistols, lyrically no one, hold none near me, hear me
Kids cheer me like The Count of Monte-Cristo
Steady poundin' soundin' like G without the lisp though
My big bro told me plain and simple, "Nas do not look back"
Watch where you took rap, no bookbags and trucker hats
Just army jacks and diamonds that's flashin'
What the fuck is that, freestyle
Disciple, Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Like Paul, Michael and Matthew, Peter, James and Andrew
Phillip, Simon and Judas -- I'm disciple of music
Street beats is the main thing minus the traitor
And I'm not a dictator, I'm the righteous invitin' you haters
Inside the life of the greatest, it'll take you through something real
Get a smack in your face, 'cause I hurt up, trauma-tize, llama
Bust shells, destroy yet try'ta prevent violence
If I present iron somebody dyin', don't even worry 'bout it
Then dress warm for the cemetery climate
When I speak I need cemetery silence, terror
See me, gold Hummers, Lamborghinis, man who stole the summer
Hand straight gleamin', if I don't know you toe-tag you
Drag you through the cement, fo-fo maggie
Body parts in my man's Maserati car, then party hard in Madagascar
While rigor mortis'll grab ya, him retarded, I'm pass that
Gloves on, where the mask at? Too many love songs
All the thugs gone, what happened? Where's the passion?
Rappers battlin' non-rappers, carryin' on backwards
Laughin' sayin' Nas thinks he's Farrakhan preachin' blackness
Hell yeah, awareness is my alias
Word to the 'Braveheart' written on my bare chest
The realest, HERE IT IS!
Disciple, Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple
__SEPERATE__
Lord! 
This Spear, huh! 
Shaka Zulu, Bobo Shanti, Nyabinghi 
Man a Mau Mau Warrior 
Despair, eh 
Fear and desperation no depression can't tarry ya 
This Spear, hey 
Ayatollah, Idi Amin, Mennelek, 
Man a Masai Warrior 
Despair, eh 
Fear and desperation no depression can't tarry ya 
This Spear 
Like BURNING SPEAR 
AND SUCH AND SUCH BEFORE ME 
Who all fought for the cause and 
This Spear, eh 
Enforcing all the laws 
The Master of the Masses 
One has power 
The other one lacks it 
Guns are power 
Controlled by assets 
Owned by financial forecasters 
Who are the Masters? 
They are the Gangsters 
They are the bankers 
The ones who tax us 
The Masses 
They are us 
The sheep, the people 
Divided in classes 
I go off like a Shite bomb 
And All ya'll see I'm on my 
War paint on my face, shit 
My nine mm on my waist, shit 
I'm a problem 
Shoot up your place shit 
Let a few go 
Then I get low 
Blazing Haze again 
The Masters, The Wall Street War Chiefs 
The Elitists Groups 
The Masses 
They pray to Jesus 
Saying he will see us through 
The Masters are the aristocratic 
The Masses 
Ask if the Most High 
Is On his way here 
I'm trying to stay clear 
My mind is my modern day Spear 
Hey 
I say...
This Spear, huh! 
Shaka Zulu, Bobo Shanti, Man a Gideon 
Man a Mau Mau Warrior 
Despair, eh 
Fear and desperation no depression can't tarry ya 
This Spear, hey 
Through the hands of time and cruel men 
It has slew more than a billion 
Despair, eh 
It keep on suppressing the humble man's opinion 
This lead into Swiss cheese 
When the 5th squeeze 
Mislead 
The media Misleads 
Scares you to the point 
Where you miss sleep 
With that said 
This lead with this Ruger 
And that shooter 
Sub-machine gun 
Ratta tat through you 
Copper tops, hollow points 
Will do ya something bad 
Our future 
Is Mislead 
Three strikes 
There's no school 
When a teacher strikes 
This economy 
This monopoly 
Get no job 
Just own your property 
Now it's back to 
What comes natural 
Must survive any how you have to 
Despair, Desperation 
But I have no fear 
When I hold This Spear 
Mek some bwoy know mi nah smile 
Cause this spear nah beg friends 
Man a run racket 
Man a run scheme 
Man a run race 
Man a run down Benz 
Can't trust a she nor we nor eye 
Inna contact lense 
Man a run from police 
And a run down wealth 
And dollars and nah mek sense 
So, 
Rise up to my defense 
Hollow pointed is my preference 
Should have been deterred 
Don't know what you heard 
Get referred 
By the wrong reference 
When this spear start dispense 
It a fly and a tear through fence 
Dismember your members 
And all of your limbs 
Body bust inna nuff segments 
Well, 
Man a run drugs 
Man a run risk 
Man all a run out a time and ends 
Man a run up and down 
And a run fi dem life 
And a run down this month rent 
Nutin' nah gwan a yard 
And food deh a road 
Then man hafi go touch pavement 
Despair was a tool 
That was used to enslave man 
And mek manservant 
Escape from Despair and Desperation 
Becomes more urgent 
Mankind needs to cleanse and wash out dem soul 
With spiritual detergent 
A distant army 
A distant relative 
Controlling the circumference 
And any man move with no permission 
They're feeling the circumstance of 
This Spear, hey 
Shaka Zulu, Bobo Shanti, Man a, eh 
Man a Mau Mau Warrior 
Despair, eh! 
Fear of your recession and depression can't tarry ya 
This Spear, hey 
Inner city youth dem rise it up disguised as AK-47 
This Spear, eh! 
And anytime them clap it up the whole city level 
This Spear 
Like Burning Spear 
And such and such before I 
Who all fought for the cause and 
This Spear, eh! 
They can't ignore me 
No!
__SEPERATE__
Hope y'all make it through the storm
You know what though, I love the rain man
A lot you cats are runnin your mouths
Your runnin your mouths crazy
Think y'all got to ease up though, you know
Ease up fore somethin happen man
We don't want that
At least you don't
Be easy man
Tell you how it feels to be on top of the world
But y'all nigga betta take it slow
Don't body ya self
Don't body ya self
Don't body ya self nigga
Yeah, yeah
Everybody get low niggaz
Dedicated to the fuck Nas coalition
Touch my dough I'm lettin .40 cals blow nigga
Not cals with four legs
But cals with more lead
That add up more dead
It's on nigga
I'm a bury them
Niggaz don't want beef they vegetarian
Scared of pussy you climbed out a caesarian
I push ya grown ass back in your mothers womb
You need nine more mouths
Your crews nine more punks
You rhyme on stuff and claim I didn't sign y'all up
If I sign y'all I'm on dust
Ya we from the same hood but nigga what?!
When y'all was tryin to rap y'all was makin me proud
Man now you fucked up, down on your luck, runnin your mouth man
Why don't be a real man, say you need a lil help
And I might help your ass off the shelf
But noooo, you're bein disrespectful
Thinkin son so cool that he won't check you
Stand down, the king is home
Queens is on, NASDAQ, Dow Jones
Don't body ya self
Crazy
Take it slow man
Slow down
Take it slow motherfucker
Don't body ya self
Let's listen
Let's just listen
Don't body ya self
Listen
Slow down though man
Slow down
Ya'll gotta take it slow
I am De Niro after Am.Ex. commercials and "The Fockers"
With Martin Scorsese after Gangs Of New York could rock this
Back together with the master plan
The rebirth of Langston Hughes, I'm that man
I'm in the streets like old graffiti
I'm hearin wankstas talkin greasy
Whether broke or rich my friend
Nasir bring that career to an end
And I'm bored with you MCs B
Ya'll beneath me
And my raps bring horror like a board of Ouiji
Of course I'm the king, get my shine on
And I blind y'all cause they call me "The Lord of the Rings"
Pinky heavy man, big stones in the weddin ban
Smell of brimstone back from Hell again
Next verse gets worse from God's son to Devil's sin
Ya'll need to take it slow
Don't body ya self
Motherfucker act like ya know 
Motherfucker better take it slow
Don't body ya self
They say Jada defeated him
Joe to street for him
What's next? I guess it's for Nas to ether him
Ya'll awaiting an MC burial
This is ethereal, FM stereo to XM radio
What does it mean he thoreal? Hmm.. whether heavenly or spiritual
Extreme, delicately like in a way that seems too perfect for this world
Man that is ritous, faithful and keeps law
Will surely live to cleanse the soverend Lord
And you are none of the above
So you a sucka for death if I'm a sucka for love
And ya wanna know why I don't got an answer niggaz
Cause I truely understand these niggaz
Scared of me so they talk about family members
Like I can't point out your grandma to niggaz
Damn you was my man like crew dawg
Don't make me change your body frame to blue fog
The Q is the borrow of true dons
Any disrespect nigga we chose arms
Will it be gilmore or crowes?
Nigga act like ya know
Yeah
Ya betta take it slow
Motherfucker act like ya know
Mess around and body ya self
Don't body ya self
__SEPERATE__
Uhh
Pushin drop-tops, Stacy Lattisaw tapes, the 80's had us all apes
Youngest gorillas up to bat at home plate
That was a uncanny era, guns in my pants
Yeah X-Clan hair, with dreads at the top of my fade
Homicide and feds on the blocks where I played, b-ball
That's when I wondered was I here for the cause, or be-cause
Cause Ray Charles could see the ghetto
Was told to stay strong and I could beat the Devil
Cause yo, I used to play Apollo balcony seats
Watchin niggaz swing razors in the front row, then out in the streets
The car show, 560's, chemical afros
Acuras pumpin Super Lover Cee and Casanova
Live chicks be, asses bustin out of they clothes
Wearin lip gloss, big door knockers pealin they earlobes
So where them years go?  Where the old gold beers and cheers go?
But now them shorties here doe, so
The doo rags are back, fitted hats, snorkels and furs
Riker's Island bustin, still packed, what's the word?
The drinkers stay drinkin, or puffin they herb
And I'm, still enjoyin life's ride; one mo' time
The doo rags are back, fitted hats, snorkels and furs
Riker's Island bustin, still packed, what's the word?
The drinkers stay drinkin, or puffin they herb
And I'm, still enjoyin life's ride; right?
Political thugs in shark suits persuade us to pull triggers
in army boots, yellin "Join the armed forces!"
We lost the Vietnam War, intoxicated poisons
Needles in arms of veterans instead of bigger fortunes
There's still a lot of nigger callin in the coorporate offices
War in the ghetto, we crabs in a barrel, they torture us
They won't be servin the beast too long
The murderers wearin police uniforms, confederate flags I burn
Beat Street breakers were dancin to the music I chose
And Peachtree Atlantic crackheads was tootin they nose
in frozen corners of Chicago, loaded up Llama's children
with fo'-fo's, and double-revolvers
We devil incarnates, headed for jail
Where Shell gas company in South Africa be havin us killed
Your paper money was the death of Christ
And all these shorties comin up just resurrect your life
It's like a cycle
Niggaz used to wear rags on they hair when it was fried up
That's when we were lied to, buyin hair products
Back before my generation, when our blackness started disintegratin
'til awareness started penetratin
The styles come from prison, they used potatoes makin liquor
just to prove we some creative niggaz
Turnin nothin into somethin, is God work
And you get nothin without struggle and hard work
War is necessary to my niggaz in chains
From Greene to Sing-Sing, I'm wantin y'all to know one thing
The hardest thing is to forgive, but God does
Even if you murdered or robbed, yeah it's wrong, but God loves
Take one step toward him, he takes two toward you
Even when all else fail, God support you
I done it, got God Son on my stomach
My heart and my lungs was affected from Henny's and gettin blunted
Do your body right and it loves you back
You only get one life, and yo because of that
I'm still blazin, goin out for the cause
Still rockin stockin caps, not for the waves, obeyin no laws
And it's like that
__SEPERATE__
Hell yeah
Check it check it check, check check
Yo, when it come to sex advice, I'm the one to call
if you a virgin with blue balls or you tear down walls
Not Dr. Ruth, call me Dr. Knockboot
Pimped out hats, rock fashionable suits
A class for the youth, Sex Ed for your head
The do's and don'ts, that should happen in the bed
First, DON'T: run up in her raw cause you get burned
for sure, fuckin with the typical whore, because
DO: rock a Rough Ryder, whenever you inside her
Your local bodega is your supplier
And DON'T: take the pussy, if she fightin
Cause you saw what happened to Tupac and Mike Tyson
'Specially if you large, some hoes is trife
Get you on a rape charge, have you servin your life
Yo, DO: get a yes confirmation before penetration
You wind up in a police station
DON'T: get with no young bitch and hit it
She PG-13, you rated R, she not permitted
DO: check for ID, whenever chillin V.I.P. 
with fly shorty P.Y.T.
Yo, DON'T: lie about the cars you got 
or who you hang with, frontin when you borrowed your watch
Yo, DO: play your game right, if the G's tight
then you can fuck shorty the same night
Yo, DON'T: trick when you don't have to
You think you ballin?  You turn your back they laffin at you
You don't gotta keep repeatin you a thug, she heard you
In fact, she attracted to your man that herbed you
DO: spend a lil' dough, only if you know
the bitch gross a lil' somethin too bro
DON'T: eat the pussy the first night
Maker her bless you, we call that shit gesundheit
DO: set the mood right, Bailey's with ice
A cup of Thug Passion'll make everything right
Yo, DON'T: pop shit like you Daddy Longdick
when you come fast like Fed-Ex and bust too quick
DO: hit positions she will find interest in
DON'T: hit the pussy if that shit's blisterin
Hope you're listenin, turn up your transisterin
Hot 97, KISS-FM
or B-L-S, with your hand up her dress
Chillin with your girl while you thinkin bout ya ex
Not too easy not too complex
I break it down, how to adress, the opposite sex
Problems or questions, I can answer them best
Signin off Dr. Knockboot at your request, peace
Rest havens
Fuck y'all bitches
Y'all niggaz get y'all shit tight
Dr. Knockboot gotta come take y'all bitches from ya!
AIGHT?!  We out!
__SEPERATE__
Uhh,Uhh, Where am I going?
Where am I? Yo, it's ill
 
Yo my wife's tired of fucking me
Life tries ducking me
Luckily I find 'em just at the right time
Mack in my right arm, Tequila bottle in 
My left arm like Cristian
Watching my life go, keeping myself in
Wolves in the night yo, hells men
Two revolvers I can let twelve spin
Hop in my Benz, push it to the limit
Buck-sixty, who wit' me? My  to well 
Twisted blunts and inner conscience
Telling me that I aint shit
No matter how much cash I sit with
Still gotta ask the lord for forgiveness
My precious baby girl came like forty nights of rain
To replenish my adolescent brain
Blessed be her name, before her birth I was insane
So I drive the cooler pressure down, delay the pain
I ate from these poisonous, fucked up streets
Tasted larceny, it was sweet, I starved for more to eat
Though I took, that was to live, hope God will forgive
As odd as it is, the more I gain the harder it is
To maintain, bitches playin' games
Niggas snitchin', I aint saying names
But y'all niggas better watch how y'all slang
Lost so many close niggas, drunk almost crashed
I'm going too fast, highway patrol will just flash
Lights in my rearview, if they stop me I hope they lock me
Instead they speed ahead
Yo nigga watch me
I'm drunk by myself, gun under my seat
I don't want none of my peeps caught up in none of my beef
I'm a ride to the end of the road if I have to
Praying no car speeds by for me to crash to
Steering wheel in my hand
Trying to hold it steady
Anything in my way is dead
Cause that's the way I feel, I am already
When I'm drunk by myself alone in the zone
Drunk by myself
Heard niggas hate me, but I hated too once
Been in the shoes of a Wolf in the night when he hunts
For every shell niggas bust, we bust at ourselves
Can't tell them niggas nothing though, bullets wak'em up well
Take them to hell
Stick up niggas once ran up on me
My deckited lifestyle attracted sharks on me
I aint your mark homey
It's hard to look straight, my foot on the brake
Spilling my bottle not even shook of the Jakes
Could hardly look both ways, put out the hayes blurry vision
Think about the time in my life before I was in televison
Hella women, jealous niggas up in my vision
Since we all hood niggas expect kilos
For what they not seeing is police expect Rico
Only if I could take care of everybody, intoxicated
Windows up blastin A.C. going wherever instinct takes me
I hate it when I'm like this
The bottle's my accomplice
The reason that I want to be alone 
Tired of all the things that went wrong 
That would have went right if I would have did it on my own
Take another swigg
The more I drink, the more I think bad thoughts
Fake friends who hung around who wanna bring you down
Not knowing who to trust, runors about niggas coming through
Supposedly to shoot at us, not knowing what was true
Or what to believe, that's why I'm on the low lately
Choosing a Henny bottle over a friend, lost again
To keep my mind off that weak shit
There's love through it all, things to live for
I swerve, almost crash into a wall
Think about the good, find myself laughing
Turn the cell off, no way to be reached
Know I'm near my crib, trying to see my way through the streets
Reminded of the positive, I take my drunk ass home
Start feeling out of it, can't wait to get out of this whip
Bring my ass to the crib
I'm tired...
__SEPERATE__
Honies, cash, weed, cars
ghetto celebrities, 'hood movie stars
gat slingers now rap singers are who we are
went from Nasty to Nas to Nas to Escobar
The path we all walk, starts out long it's like a boardwalk
monopoly, some make it around, some go down, it's prophecy
happy days balancing with life's atrocities
hoppin' in v's, knowin' some day I got to lead properly
high up in a five realizing the price paid
for this life laid in the light shade
one might say, top of the world's two whips, a crib and a girl
quick to celebrate it, poppin' corks like they made it
pretentious, arrogant niggas is senseless
pro ball players with white wives, peep they night lives
while you could catch me in a crisp white five
dark tinted, dijon-scented, with Al Green on 
my theme song, love and happiness, how can it seem wrong
I mean before this, I used to rock a taurus with the donuts
now I grown up, got it chromed up
got the rap game sewn up, sho-nuff
niggas acting cool, but it's really no love
I feel a slow buzz, off the dutch
this is everyday, every second
got to make it pay, every lesson I learnt
got me open while most of these rappers'll stay burnt
With so much drama in QBC, it's kinda hard being Escobarro
Elderado Red, sippin' Dom out the bottle
my life is like a Donald Goines novel
we wave glasses like bravo
drunk niggas with mad problems, and shot pockets
my niggas from the block rock this, 
box cocaine, cook it and chop it
looking to profit, in different ways
goin' through this difficult stage, called life
but each year my physical's praised
some fell beyond the reach of help
cut in the street, thinkin' they could teach theyself
when all we wanted was a piece of wealth
and randomly, feed our family
the streets are insanity
amply, living in ths thug's fantasy
richest nigga in show biz is what I plan to be
heavy chain and my QB sway, living this king's life
magazines write about me, in this dream it's all tight
Now the main thing that boggle my brain be all the bottles of pain
iced the chain and all the followers came
they tried to throw me off track, but I caught that
they thought I lost that
but I'm continuing to make more stacks
halftime, new york state of mind, it was written was hittin'
trips overseas, southeast, diamond and riches
sleepin on the plane, wake up when we land feelin' real scared, on the ground
rollie flush, princess cuts, and large rounds
the crews up, findin time to shine rocks
it's real, you violate, be in a pine box
if it go there, I lay you before you lay me, it's crazy
I didn't make the game, the game made me
records for the babies so they raised up in mansions
haters keep hating, and ladies'll keep glancing
Yall know the routine out this muthafucka.... word up
__SEPERATE__
What's up niggas, ay yo, I know you ain't talking 'bout me dog
You, what?
You been on my dick nigga, you love my style, nigga
 Fuck with your soul like ether
 Teach you the king you know you
 "God's son" across the belly
 I prove you lost already
Brace yourself for the main event
Y'all impatiently waiting
It's like an AIDS test, what's the results?
Not positive, who's the best? Pac, Nas and Big
Ain't no best, East, West, North, South, flossed out, greedy
I embrace y'all with napalm
Blows up, no guts, left chest, face gone
How could Nas be garbage?
Semi-autos at your cartilage
Burner at the side of your dome, come outta my throne
I got this, locked since '9-1
I am the truest, name a rapper that I ain't influenced
Gave y'all chapters but now I keep my eyes on the Judas
With Hawaiian Sophie fame, kept my name in his music
Check it
Ay yo, pass me the weed, pour my ashes out on these niggas man 
Ay, y'all faggots, y'all kneel and kiss the fucking ring
I've been fucked over, left for dead, dissed and forgotten
Luck ran out, they hoped that I'd be gone, stiff and rotten
Y'all just piss on me, shit on me, spit on my grave 
Talk about me, laugh behind my back but in my face
Y'all some "well wishers," friendly acting, envy hiding snakes
With your hands out for my money, man, how much can I take?
When these streets keep calling, heard it when I was sleep
That this Gay-Z and Cockafella Records wanted beef
Started cocking up my weapon, slowly loading up this ammo
To explode it on a camel, and his soldiers, I can handle
This for dolo and it's manuscript, just sound stupid
When KRS already made an album called Blueprint
First, Biggie's ya man, then you got the nerve to say that you better than Big
Dick sucking lips, why not you let the late, great veteran live
"God's son" across the belly, I prove you lost already
The king is back, where my crown at?
 Ill Will rest in peace, let's do it niggas
Y'all niggas deal with emotions like bitches
What's sad is I love you 'cause you're my brother
You traded your soul for riches
My child, I've watched you grow up to be famous
And now I smile like a proud dad, watching his only son that made it
You seem to be only concerned with dissing women
Were you abused as a child, scared to smile, they called you ugly?
Well life is hard, hug me, don't reject me
Or make records to disrespect me, blatent or indirectly
In '88 you was getting chased through your building
Calling my crib and I ain't even give you my numbers
All I did was gave you a style for you to run with
Smiling in my face, glad to break bread with the god
Wearing Jaz chains, no tecs, no cash, no cars
No jail bars Jigga, no pies, no case
Just Hawaiian shirts, hanging with little Chase
You a fan, a phony, a fake, a pussy, a Stan
I still whip your ass, you thirty-six in a karate class
You Tae-bo hoe, tryna' work it out, you tryna' get brolic?
Ask me if I'm tryna' kick knowledge
Nah, I'm tryna' kick the shit you need to learn though
That ether, that shit that make your soul burn slow
Is he Dame Diddy, Dame Daddy or Dame Dummy?
Oh, I get it, you Biggie and he's Puffy
Rockefeller died of AIDS, that was the end of his chapter
And that's the guy y'all chose to name your company after?
Put it together, I rock hoes, y'all rock fellas
And now y'all try to take my spot, fellas?
Philly's hot rock fellas, put you in a dry spot, fellas
In a pine box with nine shots from my glock, fellas
Foxy got you hot 'cause you kept your face in her puss
What you think, you getting girls now 'cause of your looks?
Ne-gro please
You no mustache having, with whiskers like a rat
Compared to Beans you wack
And your man stabbed Un and made you take the blame
You ass, went from Jaz to hanging with Caine, to Herb, to Big
And, Eminem murdered you on your own shit
You a dick-riding faggot, you love the attention
Queens niggas run you niggas, ask Russell Simmons
Ha, R-O-C get gunned up and clapped quick
J.J. Evans get gunned up and clapped quick
Your whole damn record label gunned up and clapped quick
Shawn Carter to Jay-Z, damn you on Jaz dick
So little shorty's getting gunned up and clapped quick
How much of Biggie's rhymes is gonna come out your fat lips?
Wanted to be on every last one of my classics
You pop shit, apologize, nigga, just ask Kiss
__SEPERATE__
Nasir bin Olu Dara bis do Allah
Fisk full of dollars in a dice game god
D & D glass cloth Kangols guided by angel with white wings
Nas the Viking fresh from my ankles thankful
Gangster see gangster do I'm Langston Hughes predecessor
Gun on my dresser slang I use upset college professor
More knowledge than Webster dictionary obituary column plus sign 'em
the first fake rapper murdered for rhyming
The jig is up gut 'em like fish swiss cheese 'em up
My wrist is freezing up sick of these ducks on my hiatus
Poking out their chest like they tall as sky scrapers
But they small as a shanty in a African village 
Soft as cotton candy we assassins and killers 
Let shottie off in club floors pellets spraying your familia
You screaming like you love war
Everybody's crazy 
Somebody's gonna get shot get rob get done get stomp get drop
Ladies love thugs and my thug love hip hop
Thugs love ladies and ladies they love hip hop
Peace fuck you with a fist in your ass
You pussy with yeast, you shook of the streets, you a Sisqo fag
You know blood baths I makes 'em fake thugs I hate 'em
8 slug I'm bustin' no discussion or waiting
Cause now Instead of coke rhymes it's laying
No analog it's digital criminals turned rapper times is changing
niggaz get flashier houses more plusher 
Bitches giving ass up at ages more younger
Hands on the clock keep turning, hands on a glock they keep squeezing
Bullets stop in your sternum they stop you from breathing
I'm light year far your mouth get all white
when I'm near you I frighten your heart
I want you to watch me notice stare look closely
Feel I'm who you posed to be real I know it hurts you
Soldiers approach you, you want to squash it, you older than most dudes
Although Nas did you and your whole crew, but
I know where niggaz sleep; it's too many schemes too many plots
War plus money man I got too many spots
Hungry niggaz get tutored to thinking new shit to come up
Killers fuck with killers you sleeping you getting stuck up
Not me your not ready I'm low but I be watching
We all connected so your man know my man
Your man knows my fam' they was cool when they was locked up
Beat cases and now niggaz back on the block what
Bothers is taking secret routes when they drive
Tinted windows ears to the street stay on their job
Peep niggaz that go t prices on their head so high
Their own my will take the contract surprise
So we play a mental game intimidation 
Got pussy niggaz get pressed up on and paying
I wish these niggaz would step up wait for the day an
Since I'm famous they thinking assault rifles won't be spraying
Who ever thinking coming to my vault for the safe
I got some niggaz with acid get it thrown in your face
Play dirty catch your moms in J-30
Whatever whodie we all crazy we all 7:30 now
__SEPERATE__
Uhh... yeah... uhh...
]
Blessings in life to the children
They say life is like 5 days
Words of a old man with silver hair in his wheel chair
His eyes were bloody while describin' what lies before me
Said evil bitches and jealous men would try to destroy me
It occurred to me, this old nigga's words couldn't be realer
I'm on top now, slightest drama, I'll have ta kill ya
Cuz animals sence weakness, sharks smell blood in water
Ishmael, Moses and Job, moved a divine order
Shit is plastic material, havin' no life
I crash whips and leave it no matter the price
As long as I survive, coppin' the five
Circle the block where the beef's at
And park in front of my enemy's eyes
They see that it's war we life stealers
Hollow tip, lead busters there's no heaven or hell
Dead is dead, fuckers
And your soul is with God
Your mind keeps lurkin' to earth
Watchin' your own murder reoccur
]
For ever struggle, every strip, and every ghetto
For every nigga toned in the pain and heavy metal
For every child that's born
And every nigga gone
And for every brotha breathin'
Live to see another mornin'
]
It's Blitz nigga the streets glory many die for me
Got knocked refused 3 to 9's, went to trial for me
Basically I'm just reality loaded with vast stories
Of lust, greed, and contempt no street is exempt
Extended clip shots hoods barricaded for 6 blocks
I sip shots, watchin' em hustlers pitch rocks
All you paintin' pictures of my pain
Illustrate the city in vain
Fallin' deep into the pits of the game
This is for the sickest state of mind
In these fatal times, vesh crimes
Nickel play the nine and niggas for the dime
Hear the sounds of them baby's cry
Still I'm sayin' why do we reside
In the ghetto with a million ways to die
Stayin' high to relieve the pain
Breathin' in the game, exhalin'
Guilts and the shame, misery and strain
What the fuck will tomorrow bring
Look at anthrax, I stand back through
Hopin' I make it tomorrow
]
My skin is a art gallery, right
With paintings of crucifixes
Hopin' to save me from all the dangers in the music business
Was once a young gangsta hangin' with youth offenders
But since I tasted paper it started losin the friendships
Watchin' kids freeze in winters, they still poor
How could I tease them with Benz's and feel no remorse
Drivin' past them in the lively fashion, diamond colors clashin'
Red stones, blue stones, red bones and black ones
Fuck did I expect with bucket seats in a Lex
And spendin' time in Chuckie Cheese with Little Des
Got guns when I'm with my daughter
Hate to bring a violent aura in her presence
She knows what daddy taught her, it's lessons
Black princess it's a ugly world
I put my life up for yours, see I love that girl
Could you believe even my shadow's jealous
My skin is mad at my flesh, my flesh hates my own bones
My brain hates my heart, my heart makes the songs
Though my songs come from the Father
I'm lonely...
Hold me, it's gettin' darker
__SEPERATE__
Yo this Nas niggas whuttup?
QB Album coming, niggas I'll Will, Bravehearts
My nigga DJ Clue - put this shit on these niggas
Desert Storm baby 2000!
A Drug dealers dream - flip his last Ki out the game
'Cause entertainment money now is off the chain
I put blunts in niggas caskets, lost in the game
I learned about pain, bodies burnt in drug game
But I'm neva gon' die, I neva heard of death
Energy could neva be destroyed
Only the flesh, when you niggas try to murder me
With bullets to my head
This is my you can't kill me niggas
I'm already dead, BRING IT!
I'm busting bodies fall in the cemetery
Black blood raining on the street
All you niggas, buried y'all
Niggas just came home, fresh out the state greens
Five time felon, thinking he jelling in Queens
It's pitiful - what bid could do, especially federal
Y'all young thugs wilding, see prison
Got a bed for you waiting, I clapped that Satan
But thought I was dreaming
I woke up masturbating in the bed with demons
I cried with every bit of strength of my small body
This is the life I chose, under God I'm tiny
Hard to find me, I popped up, lock shot-up
You can't B.I., see I'm eternal, not luck
You get shot-up, boxed-up next for the grave
Your flow is one dimensional, your level is 2nd grade
You're on top - WHAT?
Copy and fuck, I said it first, you repeated
Your false crown covered in dirt - defeated
Y'all niggas all hail, the King is dead
He running like a bitch with his tail between his legs
'Stillmatic', still eye 4 an eye, wanna be God
You're just the next rapper to die, fucking with Nas
__SEPERATE__
Yo..
Dunn you fam to me, and only family
that can get that close to me
Keep it type strong
Blowin green that's keepin us goin
Allah Havoc gettin right, on them 747
Dunn you fam to me, and only family
that can get that close to me
Keep it type strong
Blowin green that's keepin us goin
Unconditional love showin
Yo, yo, yo, yo
Forty decide, on the First side right
Me and my Dunns come from the slums
You can't take the slums out my Dunns 
and that's how it is, that's how we live
Sometimes I find myself wearin the same shit for days
not carin, bout what they gon' think or say
I got that, "I don't give a fuck" in me, it's stuck in me
That's how I 'vantage over y'all niggaz, y'all too pretty
We too gritty, like Sanford and Son 
Too grimy like Pigpen with jewels on
See we the top rap niggaz, the Q-Dogs
You got a lot of nerve, puttin out them songs
knowin that my niggaz come strong, so let's get it on
We just gettin warm, Operation "Quiet Storm"
Silent wars or we silence the fours
Half P and I's got it in the smash for sure
Now it's movies and soundtracks
This is where your career stop at
Aiyyo I drink to that
I'm like a dictionary, y'all rappers exam me
You ballet?  They read your obituary, in front your family
You should idolize Nas in the flesh
Don't wait til I'm dead, to say I was the best, no doubt
We shot hoops with coathangers, got loot with dopeslangers
Sold soap to strangers, joked with danger
Rob prostitutes, dodge cops in hot pursuit
Bought weight from rosters, travel hot routes
O.T. commute back and forth
Tell shorty get that package off
Fuck bein trapped up North, being told where to eat and shit
Caught a case then I beat the shit
Theives on the block flash badges, nylon jackets
Big white boys with guns yellin, "Freeze black kids!"
Got my niggaz in the pen, eatin octopus
Wishin they was on the blocks with us
to watch me and P do it  put the heat to it 
Put it out, first day, the whole street knew it
Bitches, hold they pussies and bop to the music
and think deep to it, now who the truest?
Yo..
Dunn you fam to me, and only family
that can get that close to me
Keep it type strong
Blowin green that's keepin us goin
Allah Havoc gettin right, on them 747
Dunn you fam to me, and only family
that can get that close to me
Keep it type strong
Blowin green that's keepin us goin
Unconditional love showin
Yo you fam to me, and only family
that can get that close to me
Keep it type strong
Blowin green that's keepin us goin
Unconditional love showin
Are you fam to me, and only fam to me
that can get that close to me
Keep it type strong
Dirty fingernails, reachin in my pocket pullin knots out
I daydream of better days, in different ways
out this lifestyle we live, iced out with the big fifth
That's why the burnt leather lean to the left
Even though we gained cash on fish
I'm trapped on reason bein we ain't all rich
And I'ma be that same nigga for the door
And I'ma still walk the same path, we soon clash
We get stacks, you do the math
We pound niggaz out, walk away and laugh
Fresh from out the lab, P and Nastradamus kid
Rap niggaz shit they drawers
Yo they probably did
I aircondition y'all niggaz, my prediction is you rewind this
Your highness, Q-Boro's finest
Click your Timbs three times, the wizard is Nas
Grant you a wish, you get rich while listenin hard
To my thugs in the prisonyard, bench-pressin 200 pounds and up
Feelin like you down on your luck
Raise up, I feel your pain, hit the law library
Appeal the game, all eyes on me
Restrained from, bein looked at, as uncivilized
We epitomize thug song, y'all niggaz get mad
Jealous rappers is puss, ain't got no style
no heart and no look, shook
Get stole on, my niggaz move right in the moonlight
Y'all niggaz get done, I pee on them son, they a small issue
We too official, blue steel pistols
Teflon vests, it's no contest we hit you
Dunn you fam to me, and only family
that can get that close to me
Keep it type strong
Blowin green that's keepin us goin
Unconditional love showin
Yo, yo, yo, yo
Forty decide, Forty-First side right
Yeah youknahmsayin?  Not for nuttin baby
Knahmsayin wanna give a shout out to my peoples
YouknowhatImean?  Gamble, Ill Will
Killa Black, my brother
It's never gonna be another
Word up..
Yeah, you know how we do things
__SEPERATE__
Yo Nas..
I don't think they wanna FUCK with this
Gangsta shit.. fo' sho'
Check it out
It's on, and once again I bring niggaz the rough
Fuckin with us, that get you motherfuckers touched
Hit in the darkest alleys, where the super sports Rally
Beatin up the block, leavin these motherfuckers shot
They ain't ready for the Nakamici
I flip this shit like I'm Kamaneze
Now dey a motherfuckin see me
They try to breeze me, but I got niggaz in New York 
comin kama-kize, sparkin this shit that keep me off the heezee
Jay-Hovah, he with my man came over
to scoop me, blowin dukey, in the black Range Rover
Nasir, tell these motherfuckers what we came for
Tell these niggaz why we here
Nuttin but the New York to Texas connection
Nuttin but some real shit, what y'all expected
Spaz out, some times dreamin, think I'm awoke
Harsh realities of life, hit me after I smoke
Money satisfy half of my mood, then there's a part of me 
that's distant, quiet, the most dangerous side of me
I'm twisted like, Dr. Death, Kevorkian
Flip shit, white gun handle, made of porcelain
My, Houston niggaz, come through for niggaz
Scarface get a call and we shootin niggaz
Favor, for a favor, that's how we do business
Tryin to make future figures, we two of the illest, what?
You wet who I want wetted, I'll wet who you want wetted
Any nigga can get it   
I'll wet who you want wetted, you wet who I want wetted
Any nigga can get it
You say you got a problem?  Then tell a nigga where he at
So I can study his motions and peel his motherfuckin cap
Where his brother go to school at?  Find out some more information 
bout that bitch and hit a nigga right back
Cause when it come down to the come down;
I'ma pull the motherfuckin plug on him
Walk up to his face and then gone
Set a example, send these hoes a little message:
They need to be more careful who they mess with, don't even stress it
Leaded, I pull these capers all the time
With the ugliest AK, I blow his motherfuckin mind
Him and whoever standin by, I'll tell these niggaz, "Let's go"
And then we fin' to ride, and he fin' to die
He fin' to die, throwin up his own blood
With a slug in his motherfuckin mug
I do this outta love, cause your money ain't no good here
Just consider that as favor, until I need a favor
A killer code, secret untold, how we bury beef with a rose
To his wake we send a wreath that explodes
Beneath us sleep with the Reaper, they sleep eyes closed
That's how real Brad Jordan keep it, to him I owe
Five fo-fo's ready, five masks, five mercedes
Attack em like Freddie, then we toastin over spaghetti
I share withcha drama, you share with mine
That's how we killin two birds at the same time
Send my enemy's ear, I'll send your enemy's finger
with a pinkie ring, that's just a present my nigga
Either way the heat is grave, fuck with 'Face we bring war
Either, you feel these bullets or the Texas chainsaw
Not for popularity reasons, but for the love of the art
And you my heart, I leave casualties bleedin
Cause we keep it death for a death, life for a life
Murder for a murder, and I got you it's vice versa
__SEPERATE__
The Fear  Of A Black Man Dick The Worlds Greatest Fear
Scoopin' Dee Lop Street Hop Dats All We Do Guess What America We Love You Step Up West Africa We Love You
Guess What UK We Love Ya But Need You We Singin' Like Ms.McKeper Nas The Inferious Lyricist But Now The Same Time
Nas Is Inpententrable The Menace Approves Of The Scription That Proves I Resent That A Prince Hats My Crown
My Thrown Used To Belong To Where That North Korean Kim Used To Sit At They Check To A Chimps Mans Ancestor
I Think A Pimps A Black Mans Ancestor Just Around The Paragram In The Corner Of My Next Word Right Next To The World Greatest Fear
The Fear Of The African Black Mans Penis Is Phenis Slouer Beth Married Jesse Lee Proud Man He Was Mother He Was Light Like Ya Mama
Black Blue Colour Skin A Softness Match For Anyone Stirred With Some Some Words Dat Smother Black Mother Son Lover Jesson
Dat Old Jesses A Trip At The Factory Man He Quit He Loved His Ciqarettes His Beer And Slouer Beth Married Less Than A Month
After They Met Slouer Beth Was After The Sex Cute White Darling Pretty Angel From The Heaven She Fallen Such A Perfect Match
They Both Human They Both Knew And They Got Together Be A Lot Of Eye Screwin' Whole Bunch Of How Dare You Looks From The Whites Then The Negro
Black Chicks Have Fits And Her Go Man Dingo Shes So Liberal Screams Out In Ecstacy Cause Sexually She Gotta Have A Stab At Jesse Lee
The Fear Of A Black Mans Penis 
The Fear Of A Black Mans Dick 
The Fear Of A Black Mans Penis 
The Fear Of A Black Mans Dick 
They Used To Barbecue Blacks Cut Off They Gen And I'll Tell Ya Killin' Off The Averigies In Austrailia Coldest Shit I'm Tryin' To Tell Ya
Daddies Told His Daughter Stay Away From The Bucks They Just Try To Impale Ya Cause She Heard About Wut The Myth Is About Heavy Equipment
That Some Sisters Might Dismiss It HA HA Yeah Right Your Right She Probably Didt Git A Call The Other Night So Fathers You Should Be Scared
Shes Bangin' Down The Door Of My Bedroom She Tryin' To Get Inside The Fruit Of The Looms She Hopes I Have My Ear Tunes Passin' Down My Grandfathers Crown Jewels
Cause If We Turn Around The World Turns Brown It's A Fact They Want A Thug In Em' Guess How Many Presidents Had Some Black Blood In Em' And This Nations A Vast Nation
So Wut Was Your Fictnation With Cashration Colour Should't Matter Revelations Colour Shouldt Matter By Life & Love Cause Colour Never Matters Under The Covers When The Lights Are Off
__SEPERATE__
Yeah
I want all my niggas to come journey with me
My name is Nas, and the year is 1973
Beginning of me, therefore I could see
Through my belly button window who I am...
I existed in a womb, just like an abyss
Came straight from spirit land, my hands balled in a fist
Punching on my moms stomach, kicking on her cervix
Twitching cause I'm nervous
Thought my intended purpose
Was to be born to reign, not in scorn or vain
But to take on a name, my pops chose for me
Bloodstream full of indo
Developing eyes looking out my belly button window
My father's face wears a frown
And I'm wondering if they even want me around
Cause I'll go back to spirit town
So I could rest longer before I come back down
The chute again, in the near future when
My moms and pops can agree on this
Was here before but my moms saw her gynocologist
He dumped me off, first they want me then turn around and they dont
You got a 120 days do what you want
But as for me coming back this be my last time
Abort me, keep me, give me away, make up ya mind
I shot my way out my mom dukes
I shot my way out my mom dukes
They must wanna keep me, cause  4 months past and I'm still alive
Guess I got what you call an ill-will to survive
When I look hard the lights is killing my eyes
I know when moms is laying down cause I get bored and start to get live
Move side to side hear loud music and vibe
All black babies are born with rhythm thats no lie
Solar energize, mineralize food through my mothers tube
I'm covered in this thick layer of goo
Month two was the least most comfortable
My umbilical cord choking me
But month 3 was closer, see
Thats when pops took  moms to see the doc at the clinic
But I was saved cause he changed his mind in the last minute
Watching 'em yell, heard my moms voice well
Feared fist fights, so terrified when we fell
While they broke up furniture and smashed plates on the wall
I wondered if I am born will I be safe at all
This place they call the world though my view was so large
Couldn't wait to get up, grow up and take charge
Month 5, Month 6 went by, hoping I'm born in July
But the Lord already figured out a date and time
Septemeber 14th, 73
Get ready world, doctors in the front waiting for me
Arms open cause they know when I drop, alot of shit's gonna stop
See how the goverment will start re-training cops
Month 9, I'm a week over due, the labor induced
Pops told my moms to push and take deep breaths too
Said stay calm, holding her arm, I'm trying to hold on
Surgical gloves touching my scalp, my head pops out
Everything blurry, my first breath screams out
Tears pouring down my pops face he's so proud
Wanted to hold me, but I was so bloody
They washed me off and he said "At least that nigga aint ugly!"
Placed me in his arms snuggly, laid me on my mother
Finally, I got to see who held me in her body
She loved me,and I plan to over through the devil
Y'all bout to see this world in trouble
Motherfuckers...
__SEPERATE__
Yeah
I want all my niggas to come journey with me
My name is Nas, and the year is 1973
Beginning of me, therefore I could see
Through my belly button window who I am...
I existed in a womb, just like an abyss
Came straight from spirit land, my hands balled in a fist
Punching on my moms stomach, kicking on her cervix
Twitching cause I'm nervous
Thought my intended purpose
Was to be born to reign, not in scorn or vain
But to take on a name, my pops chose for me
Bloodstream full of indo
Developing eyes looking out my belly button window
My father's face wears a frown
And I'm wondering if they even want me around
Cause I'll go back to spirit town
So I could rest longer before I come back down
The chute again, in the near future when
My moms and pops can agree on this
Was here before but my moms saw her gynocologist
He dumped me off, first they want me then turn around and they dont
You got a 120 days do what you want
But as for me coming back this be my last time
Abort me, keep me, give me away, make up ya mind
I shot my way out my mom dukes
I shot my way out my mom dukes
They must wanna keep me, cause  4 months past and I'm still alive
Guess I got what you call an ill-will to survive
When I look hard the lights is killing my eyes
I know when moms is laying down cause I get bored and start to get live
Move side to side hear loud music and vibe
All black babies are born with rhythm thats no lie
Solar energize, mineralize food through my mothers tube
I'm covered in this thick layer of goo
Month two was the least most comfortable
My umbilical cord choking me
But month 3 was closer, see
Thats when pops took  moms to see the doc at the clinic
But I was saved cause he changed his mind in the last minute
Watching 'em yell, heard my moms voice well
Feared fist fights, so terrified when we fell
While they broke up furniture and smashed plates on the wall
I wondered if I am born will I be safe at all
This place they call the world though my view was so large
Couldn't wait to get up, grow up and take charge
Month 5, Month 6 went by, hoping I'm born in July
But the Lord already figured out a date and time
Septemeber 14th, 73
Get ready world, doctors in the front waiting for me
Arms open cause they know when I drop, alot of shit's gonna stop
See how the goverment will start re-training cops
Month 9, I'm a week over due, the labor induced
Pops told my moms to push and take deep breaths too
Said stay calm, holding her arm, I'm trying to hold on
Surgical gloves touching my scalp, my head pops out
Everything blurry, my first breath screams out
Tears pouring down my pops face he's so proud
Wanted to hold me, but I was so bloody
They washed me off and he said "At least that nigga aint ugly!"
Placed me in his arms snuggly, laid me on my mother
Finally, I got to see who held me in her body
She loved me,and I plan to over through the devil
Y'all bout to see this world in trouble
Motherfuckers...
__SEPERATE__
Crime, life, bitches, money
Time..
For my Braveheart's.. my Braveheart's
Uhh, uhh, uhh.. what, what, what?
One time.. two times..
From "Breaking Atoms" to "Illmatic", to goin platinum
Shit did change course since rippin it with Main Source
Nine-one, nine-two, time flew
Out of the blue, time for a new young king to rule
Younger frame, older state of mind
Find my name on a page in your Qu'ran, I learned that, in '89
When I was slingin cocaine and baby 9's
Put it in rap and I gave y'all a way to rhyme
God guides us, from public assistance to high rises
Condos, houses where y'all can't find us
Move on your cliques in silence, and wet it up
My meal everyday was a slice and 7-Up
Took advice from a street legend
Identities have been changed, to protect the innocent
Witnessin niggaz mistakes, visits at niggaz wakes
Cause jealousy infiltrates and seals your fate
Look way deep inside yourself
Discover the diamond inside, find ya wealth
Once you get it, you gotta live it the limit
Niggaz never wanna see you with it, FUCK THEM THO'
Niggaz can't come close enough to touch the dough
The lifestyle I live is untouchable
So we clutch a few, guns that'll touch your crew
Cause we learned to do what the hustlers do
Different ways to come out the hood - in cuffs or a casket
or crazy, or shootin three pointer baskets
Or maybe - it's the rap shit, all type of tactics
we use to get dough, some choose kickin in doors
I asked a reverand, my mother and a best friend
less than ten years ago for me to get dough
What y'all recommend is either dope weed or blow
Cause high school was slow, and jewelry was hot
Duckin truancy cops, trains I hopped, to make it downtown
Cisco in my veins, pissed between trains
Canal Street, just lookin at rings
Outside through a glass, went in the store and asked
how much it cost, Korean man brushin me off
for some other big time customer, probably a hustler
who looked down at my small chain and chuckled up
I said, "I'll be just like you soon, motherfucker what?"
To them niggaz who get life and throw a smile at the judge
Wildest thugs, who blow trial, exiled from the hood
Keepin bitches, comin through on visits
You will survive, them weak freaks think you finished
You first time in you known for poppin your toast
By your third year in you forgotten by most
Niggaz wife cut them out of they life, niggaz don't write
Friends actin like they don't be gettin your kites
It be ill, niggaz comin home and no time to get killed
Not even home a month and they get peeled, backwards
in they own backyard or in the park
One to the head, two to the heart, you should be smart
In the projects, who gon' die next?
Hoodrats know who let the gats blow and who keep cashflow
Like the niggaz know the rats, with some good asshole
Blunts be a good-ass roll while passin your 'dro
Feel me?
One time, huh, two times, uhh uhh uhh
What what what? Uhh uhh uhh..
__SEPERATE__
What I'm gonna do? Shit is all true
Hmm... Fried chicken, fly vixen
Give me heart disease but need you in my kitchen
You a bird but you ain't a ki'
Got wings but you can't fly away from me
Driving in your bucket seats
All the way from Kentucky to fuck with me
Look what you done to me, was number one to me
After you shower, you and your gold metal flour
Then you rub your hot oil for about a half an hour
You in your hot tub I'm looking at you salivating
Dry you off I got your paper towel waiting
Lay you down cause you're red hot
Louisiana style you make my head rot
Then I flock to the bed then plop
When we done I need rest
Don't know what part of you I love best
Your legs or your breast
Mrs. Fried Chicken, you gonna be a nigga death
Created by southern black women to serve massa' guest
You gonna be a nigga death
Mrs. Fried Chicken you was my addiction
Dripping with hot cholest-
Like Greeks with his falafel, Italian with his to-mato pasta
What roti is to a rasta
Trapping me; You and your friend mac' and cheese
Candy yams collard greens but you knocking me to my knees
It's killing me when I'm this high
Nothing I need more than a fish fry
Shit it taste good I can't lie
It's like you're walking out the tanning saloon
When I pull you out the oven from baking I got you on my mind
Rubbing that sun tan lotion all up over your body
So amazing how you sparkle when I glaze you swine
Hey my pretty hand hot
It's so feminine the way you submitted and how you gave me power
To massaging me to shower you with lemon water
Marinate you with seasoning and dipping you in chowder
Baby it's like you at the spa the way you gently lay in the pan
While enjoying your butter milk treatment
I sit and watch the grease sizzle bubbling on your skin
Despite the funny fragrance still I lick my finger frequent
In any event, I'm reflecting on all the signs
That I got saying that I shouldn't fuck with you
But the way you that you would taste made you hard to resist
When I put my mouth on you but that's another issue
Butterflies up in my stomach, when I laid eyes on you
Or was it infection manifesting
Confused over the feeling, impatiently eating you
Trichina worm chewing on the wall of my intestine
I'm a eat you until there's nothing left
Until my very last breath, you gonna be a nigga death
Despite I prepare it the best specialize in cooking swine as a chef
You gonna be a nigga death
Who cares if the swine is mixed with rat, cat and dog combined
Yes, I'm a eat the shit to death
Ain't that some shit
I'm a eat some shit until what I'm eating kills me
And I choose to do that, why?
'Cause that's just what niggas do
__SEPERATE__
These later days in Babylon
As I watch your children grow
And the years them carry on
And I miss you even more
Still I send them go to school
And tell them
What dem fi know
All of mi friend dem mi salute
Daddi gon and Lenny Screw
Another year has come and past
Man a drop like morning dew
Uncle Warrick sick and gone
When him couldn't catch a flew
Picka T you a mi don
Respect long and overdue
When nothing never did a gwan
You still have on somethin' new
Our friendship ever last
All when one minus from few
Yes we surely had a blast
We're like family Me and you
A nuh every path you cross
Lead to somebody whe true
Of the many that are called
Only chosen is a few
Of the real friends that serve you long
Your memories might fade
Your real friends will serve you long
Sunshine or rain
Your real friends will serve you long
Acquaintances will fade
Your real friends wont do you wrong
Real friend don't change
Only talking with winners
A loser or two
Got my number
Still they think they real
But they just really awfully bitter
Salty niggaz Hate the smarter ones
These are the doubters
Who's our 'bout my run
I barely made it out the slums
My value high Cause I do more than
Rap about a gun
I made money for niggaz
Ya'll never looking out for none
I helped millionaires get to that very position
Some real millionaires see that's ill
Cause look at statistics
Real millionaires
And I ain't talking ghetto riches
Thorough business
You mistreating niggaz
Heard your folks bleed in prison
You ain't a G
And if you was
I don't recall
Who would roll with ya'll
Bunch a fucking know it alls
Who's dough is small
Look what's it come to
Our rapport's good no more
We was good before
Till I saw what type a dude you took me for
We had a chance to take paper down
What I took was more
Because of hatred
Opportunity wasted
Your real friends will serve you long
Your car and clothes will fade
Your real friend wont do you wrong
Real friend don't change Eh
Your real friend won't run in war
Nuh care what the cost is
You real friends are in for all the wins and the losses
Fi Real!
No question at all
Them ready fi rise the tallest
Take to the enemies
All for one
And one for all this
Real friend will hear you out
No secret feelings
Real friends won't sell you out
No bargain pleading
For real!
Always looking out
A meal!
When outside a drought
Your real!
Friend won't hide you out
No
Your real friends will serve you long
When all else fails
Your real friend wont do you wrong
Real friend don't change
May laughter
From backstabbers
Turn to tears faster
I wish for you
No snake shall slither past ya
You have to
Keep your vision clear
Cause only a coward lives in fear
My surroundings
Got only real powerful niggaz here
Real men we have a code of ethics
No question
No jealousies
No feminine tendencies
We expecting
No gossip
No phony logic
No counting your homey pocket
Spare no expense for legal defense
If your homey locked up
No keeping tabs
On who was the last who looked out
Selfishness
That's a character flaw
No holding out
Yo what happened to the honor?
You're dealing with
Sensitive Pre-Madonna drama
Teflon love
For my dudes who solid
Your real friends will serve you long
Your memories might fade
Your real friends will serve you long
Sunshine or rain, eh
Your real friends will serve you long, woe ya woe
When all else fails
Your real friends wont do you wrong
Real friend don't change
Now plentiful
Or scantily
My cup be full
Or emptily
With arm in arms
We'll all trod on
Through destiny
A friend that's true
Is there for me
Respect is due
They care for me
Should I be down
Or even out
They're next to me
Hey
Your real friends will serve you long
Your memories might fade
Your real friends will serve you long
Sunshine or rain, hey
Your real friends will serve you long, woe ya woe
When all else fails
Real friends won't do you wrong
Real friend don't change
Real friend don't change
Real friend don't change
Real friend don't change
__SEPERATE__
Only a few can feel my pain
 Only if I could show you
 Only if you was in this game
 You'd feel the whirlwind blow you
My daily dose is ferocious
I smoke dope, just as strong as opium
Hopin I'm close to just breakin frustration;
speakin on podiums
Facin this cold world head-on, dead on arrivals
Young black, poor education guns crack
The gang violence done that
Nighttime, the guns blow, streets got snitches
dealers, bitches, killers and blunt smoke, clubs open
Benzes, Jeeps, dubs pokin out tires
Thugs with heat, pay security, to let them slide in
Huh, I'm at the corner driftin, sippin, Cognac
To' back, know dat soldiers is packin no secret
Though I'm broken hearted women done left me hopeless in darkness
Smokin, driftin in sickness, stand by oceans watch the sun glisten
I'm soul-searchin, I'm soul-hurtin
What happens when money don't make you happy
I wish this on no person
Ate at the classy places, made all my fashion statements
I got no friends I'm lonely, don't want no pity save it
Yo, ride in the nighttime, I'm high, got on my flight suit
Hood with the night sign, dark colors on
Pull up the block my brother's on
I hug him and we blow trees  Scopin for police
Guns on our hip, fiends want a fix, stumblin tricks 
We left the drug game alone
Brothers is jealous cause we still call the hood our home
What could you tell us?
At funerals my eyes swell up 
Look at my dog lay in the casket
Twin shotgun barrels had blasted
And rest in peace for him, is all I could whisper
as I paid respect, kissed his face and felt hard skin
It's part of God's plan, but why so many niggaz have to die?
It's crowded in this place, let the priest and pastor by
Bandana covers my eye, I'm scopin through the room
I see killers and thieves, mob bosses and goons
And yet I feel responsible when my nigga's pronounced dead
inside the hospital, I wish there's somethin I could do, but..
__SEPERATE__
"Get-get.. get down!" - 
Uh.. uh.. uh..
New York streets where killers'll walk like Pistol Pete
And Pappy Mason, gave the young boys admiration
Prince from Queens and Fritz from Harlem
Street legends, the drugs kept the hood from starvin
Pushin cars, Nicky Barnes was the 70's
But there's a long list of high-profile celebrities
Worldwide on the thorough side of things
Livest kings, some died, one guy, one time
one day grabs me, as I'm about to blast heat
40-side of Vernon, I turned well he asked me
"Whatchu up to, the cops gon' bust you"
I was a teen drunk off brew, stumbled I wondered
if God sent him, cause two squad cars entered the block
and looked at us, I ain't flinch when they watched
I took it upstairs, the bathroom mirror, brushed my hair
Starin at a young disciple, I almost gave my life to what the dice do
Yeah man, throwin them bones
Hopin my ace get his case thrown
His girl ain't wait for him, she in the world straight hoein
While he lookin at centerfolds of pretty girls
showin they little cooch, gangstas don't die he's livin proof
The D.A. who tried him was lyin
A white dude, killed his mother durin the case
Hung jury, now the D.A. is bein replaced
Pre-trial hearin is over, it's real for the soldier
Walks in the courtroom, the look in his eyes is wild
Triple-homicide, I sit in the back aisle
I wanna crack a smile when I see him
Throw up a fist for black power, cause all we want is his freedom
He grabbed a court officer's gun and started squeezin
Then he grabbed the judge, screams out -- nobody leavin everybody
"Get down, get down!  Get down, get down!" - 
 Everybody
"Get down, get down!  Get down, get down!" - 
Some niggaz fuck they enemies in they ass when they catch 'em
Weird-ass niggaz are dangerous, so don't test 'em
They make you, dissapear, this a year that I won't forget
Sold CD's double platinum, met mo' execs
Southern niggaz, independent label, real killers
Know the business, ran Tennessee for years, now they chillin
They had the coke game somethin crazy
Sold music out the trunk of they car, that shit amazed me
Put me onto heron blunts, sherm or somethin
Took a puff, what the fuck, I turned to punch them
Southern niggaz ain't slow, nigga tried to play me
I left from around them dudes, they cool but they crazy
Now I'm back around the old school that raised me
New York gangstas, we loungin, out in L.A. see
A dude wrote my dawg from Pelican Bay
The letter say, "Nas I got your back - the fools don't play"
I rolled with some Crips down to a Crenshaw funeral
Never saw so many men slaughtered and I knew the ho responsible
The nigga still alive in a hospital
Midnight they crept in his room and shot the doctor too
See my cousin's in the game, thuggin and things
He plugged me with a dame who was half-Mexicano
Gave the ass up, I'ma mack daddy Soprano
She passed me the indigo, but the imbecile
shoulda never tippy-toed, thought my eyes were closed
Openin the hotel room do', to let her goons in
But I moved in a manner, on some Jet Li shit
I let the hammers blow, wet three kids
See honey thought I had somethin to do, with all the drama
Cause I was with a crew, that had her people killed
Called up my cousin, told him I ain't fuckin witchu
He responded cool, but told me out here this how motherfuckers
"Get down, get down!  Get down, get down!" - 
 Everybody
"Get down, get down!  Get down, get down!" - 
All I really gotta say is that
if that's how our people gon' get down, how we ever gon' get up?
How we ever gon' get up if that's how we get down?
A shame when you ain't look at it
My folk is yo' folk, but we all kinfolk
Somebody gotta make a change
__SEPERATE__
Say hello to the man, goodbye to the gigolo
It was difficult for me to find a chick I want
This ain't no sucka for love shit
This ain't no Huxtable kisses and hug shit, first night we fuck shit
And don't call the next day, this a thug's wedding day
And love, will we make it? Let us pray...
In a limo, my niggas, my father, my brothers
Everybody in tuxes gettin' blunted
Hard Bottasmov costumes, this ain't no act, though
Factual, the pimp shall scoop no more
Yes, I'm absolutely sure
I know that she love me, I know that she faithful
We spoke on a prenuptial agreement cuz Will and Jada ain't need it
Spoke on eloping but then I deaded the thought
Cuz she deserves Cinderella's Ball and the whole shit
But know this, you fuckin' wit a slit ya throat quick
Behicular explosions, cigar smokin'
Dark-minded, chart climbin, well-spoken
Safer world of broke men to rich ones
Throw them phone numbers away cuz this is it, hun
Headed to the Chapel, my niggas laughin
And it's bafflin cuz just a year ago
It's weird, though, I knew I'd get married
To who? I knew not, thought of snatchin Halle up from the dreadlock
Pumpin' Sade, my head knot
Finally, I met the perfect bitch, pardon my french, rephrase that 
Someone who made my heart stop, couldn't wait to blaze that
Tired of hoppin' from honey to honey
HIV spreadin', everybody bump the same bunnies
The game'll put niggas in they graves right before they part ways with the street
I want a son to greet every mornin'
Daughters and more sons tickle my feet
Wife smilin', tellin' me it's time to eat
I'm gettin' married
It was my dream for my queen to put the ring on the ride
Even Marrin Luther King had a fling on the side
That's what the negative ones say
Knew my wedding would be one day but quickly is this day
I know the hoes gonna miss me
Lookin' at old photos, sayin, "Damn, used to twist me"
Start chokin' up since I woke up
Bachelor Party was crazy, tryin' hard just to sober up
Father saw me in a daze, knudged me with his left arm
Told me how him and moms went to City Hall, dressed norm'
Said she would love me and my eyes were boating
Customized in London by guys who suit up kings
Gov', you got the ring, Jung', you behave
Maxwell, he gon' sing, invited Lauryn Hill and the gang
Baltimore, North Cacky', Mississippi
Family packed in, my nigga, L is crazy tipsy
Spilled Pepsi on the cufflinks, ginger ale got it out
Watched in the church, just all big to thug it out
My girl walked in glistenin', different stones
'Bout to go from my fiance to Mrs. Jones
That's a union nobody can touch
I gotta be cool wit' ya crazy aunts and uncles
Cuz I love you much...cuz you put up wit my shit
Court cases, baby mommas
I make an honest woman outta you yet
Everybody starin' at you, I'm at the alter, standin'
Heart poundin' out my chest like a cannon
I'm happy, one of my Groom's men
Under the music says, "Don't do it"
But they just joke, some crew shit
They playin, I'm gleeful, I'm stayin'
I'm sayin' vows that are all true
"Will you take music as your wedded wife?"
"I do."
Sike, this ain't about music, y'all know who I'm talkin' to
Gettin' married
__SEPERATE__
Uhh.. regulate nigga
Bravehearts nigga
Live for this
Some of y'all don't live at all
Get yours nigga
Get yours baby
Uhh, yo.. yo..
As the night close down on the Earth like gray dark rings
Light of cities in the nights, destination for Kings
with big dreams, like Castro, overthrew Bautista
from Cuba, and pointed nukes toward the U.S.
About to shoot us for revolution; that's how you gotta move
A lot of rules, some locked in solitude
Curse the day of they birth confused, who's to be praised?
The mighty dollar -- or almighty Allah
I'm like the farmer, plantin words, people are seeds
My truth is the soil; help you grow like trees
May the children come in all colors, change like leaves
but hold before you, one of those, prophetic MC's
with blunted flows, seven hundred souls in me
Each channelin, from past to present times, heaven shines
light on those, innocent to how the world grows
Some men become murderers, and some girls become hoes
And you accounted for, everything that you heard
Do not speak to fools; they scorn the wisdom of your words
My heart is wise, bloodshot eyes, the saga never dies
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners..
Yo we gotta be God's children, habitats in tall buildings
Rats crawl in filthy hallways, incinerators
Sinners who faithless, still there's hope, pray it's answered
Dreams turned real - what's a wicked nation?
One with blind men - not takin charge of the situation
Empty arguments and real conversations needed
The world'll need it, to hear it
Evil tries to weaken my spirit - it's chronic herb
This hurt come from the honest word
I now try hardest to serve my maker, what I learned
find it's way on the paper, so I could dictate it
Articulate it, luckily - I was put on one of the ships that made it
through strong currents and winds that left the others stranded
to sink in the Atlantic
Satan jigs the planet, not to get too religious, but
who decides when and if your life is finished?
If Christ is in this, for the sake of your name, oh Lord
may we break away from the chains abroad
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners.. get up, wake up, rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners..
You wanna buy time?  I'm the seller of minutes
I give you every second low-priced, if I so lies; the truth is
Time waits for none of you, in fact
he can't wait for the date to snatch the ground right from under you
Small visions of better life if cheddar was right
lurk in the mind, of young ones ahead of they time
Trapped in the slums, beggin for nuttin but takin
Headed for nuttin but the state pen, where they cousins be waitin
Judges is not relatin to pleas, guns bustin where the kids play
Richochet off lamp poles and leave damp holes
in bystanders, get cancelled, D.O.A.
Around the way where we from
Hope the future reduce the rate of those buried young
Life is every man's kingdom, a dyin man's past
and a newborn's, first time to be here at last
And shouldn't have to grow up fast, and suffer our pain
Hustlin harder than the generations here before he came
Goin through the same bullshit as our fathers
Readin history, but who's the authors?
For some the game is easy, for most of us the game is much harder
But never lose faith; through the years just get smarter
Ghetto prisoners.. ghetto prisoners..
 
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners.. get up, wake up, rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners rise rise rise
Ghetto prisoners..
__SEPERATE__
Uhh..
Uh.. speak without thinkin..
speak without speakin.. huh..
Feel without reachin, uhh
That's what it's about
It's about that, inner, inner love, yaknawmean?
God love us hood niggaz 
Cause next to Jesus on the cross was the crook niggaz 
and the killers, God love us good niggaz 
Cause on the streets is the hood niggaz, uhh
And I know he feel us, uhh
God love us hood niggaz 
Cause he be wit us in the prisons
and he takes time to listen, uhh
God love us hood niggaz 
Cause next to Jesus on the cross was the crook niggaz, uhh
but he forgive us
He who has ears, let him hear
And he who has sight, let him see
He who has life, let him be
See everything goes through change
Those who know don't talk
and those who talk don't know a thing
Men are born soft and turn tough
Dead lay a stiffened heart, I've been kissed by God
I've been hurt, I've been marked for death, almost ripped apart
by the beast but he missed his mark
Alone in the dark my thoughts had sparked up
when I saw my body on the floor, from above I watch it all
Yo it came to me, the pain in me
Many slain empty skulls where a brain should be
It strangely seemed, like it was a dream
but the si-rens had never woke me
Only reason I'm here now is cause God chose me
And to me, I'm only just a crook nigga
But God love us hood niggaz
Day by day by day I sit back and pray
My thugs get packed away, in a maxi-cage
They pass away, they went off the casket way
My gats will spray, but that won't bring em back today
So long my crimies now gone for eternity
The team we got left on the set, now turn to me
Can't speak, tears in my eyes, revenge in my mind
I ride past the church where they got his body and find
they takin him to the hearse to put his body in dirt
That's it, pay my respects, wipe my tears with my shirt
Now it's time to do work, out of love and retribution
As loyalty, he would die for me, no excuses
Loadin clips up, countin bullets carefully
For self, though it feels like, he was there for me
Saw the enemy, I ate him, saw Jakes behind me
They ain't knock me, it's obvious that God's watchin me
Jealousy in the hood, felonies in the hood
Thugs wit guns become celebrities in the hood
Yo it's beef in the hood, smoke trees in the hood
Little girls have seeds by O.G.'s in the hood
It's food in the hood, it's drugs in the hood
You can choose if you would, coke to sniff
Dope to ooze in your blood, parolees
ex-cons live in the hood, it's jobs in the hood
You can starve in the hood
Your best friends'll fuck your baby moms in the hood
But it's good in the hood
I was raised in the hood
Was taught how to walk and duck strays in the hood
I stays in the hood, got my ways from the hood
Learned to play ball go to the NBA, in the hood
There's AIDS  in the hood 
Our lives are the worst, on top of that, we broke
That's the main reason why God, love us the most
__SEPERATE__
"Woke up this mornin', you got yourself a gun, you got yourself a gun"..
Yo I'm livin' in this time behind enemy lines
so I got mine, I hope you 
You from the hood, I hope you ("got yourself a gun"
you want beef I hope ya 
And when I see you I'ma take what I want
so you tried to front, hope ya 
You ain't real, hope ya 
My first album had no famous guest appearances
the outcome, I'm was crowned the best lyricist
many years on this professional level
why would you question who's better?
the World is still mine, tattoos real
with "God's Son" across the belly, the boss of rap
you saw me in Belly with thoughts like that
to take it back to Africa, I did it with Biggie
Me and 2Pac were soldiers of the same struggle
You lames should huddle, your teams shook y'all feel
the wrath of a killer, 'cause this is my football field 
Throwin' passes from a barrel, shoulder pads, apparel
but the Q.B. don't stand for no quarterback
every word is like a sawed-off blast
'cause y'all all soft and I'm the black hearse
that came to haul y'all ass in
it's for the hood by the corner store
many try, many die, come at Nas if you want a war.
I'm the N the A to the S-I-R
and If I wasn't I must've been Escobar
you know the kid got his chipped tooth fixed
Hair parted with a barbers preciseness
Bravehearted for life, it's - 
the return of the Golden Child, son of a blues player
so who are you playa? y'all awaited the true savior
puffin' that tropical, cups of that Vodka too
Papi chu', tore up, wake up in a hospital
Throw up? never, 'member I do this through righteous steps
you Judists thought I was gone, so in light of my death
y'all been all happy go lucky, bunch of sambos
call me Gods Son, with my pants low
I don't die slow, put them rags up like Petey Pablo
this is Nasdaq dough, in my Nascar with this Nas flow, reppin'
hit the record sto', never let me go, get my whole collection.
It's - the - return of the Prince, the boss
this is real hardcore, Kid Rock and Limp Bizkit's soft
sip criss, get chips, wrist gliss, I floss
stick shift look sick up in that boxsta Porsche
with the top cut off, rich kids go and cop the source
they don't know about the blocks I'm on
and everybody wanna know where the kid live, where he rest at?
where he shop at and dress at?
know he got dough, where does he live?
is he still in the bridge?
does he really know how ill that he is?
got all of y'all watchin' my moves
my watch and my jewels
hop in my coupe, dodge interviews like that
It's not only my jewels, ice anything, plenty chains
Look at my tennis shoes, I iced that
Who am I? the back twister, lingerie ripper
automatic leg spreader, quicker brain getter
keepin' it gangsta wit' ya
__SEPERATE__
Check me out y'all, Nasty Nas in your area
About to cause mass hysteria
Before a blunt, I take out my fronts
Then I start to front, matter of fact, I be on a manhunt
You couldn't catch me in the streets without a ton of reefer
That's like Malcolm X, catchin the Jungle Fever
King poetic, too much flavor, I'm major
Atlanta ain't Brave-r, I'll pull a number like a pager
Cause I'm am ace when I face the bass
40-side is the place that is giving me grace
Now wait, another dose and you might be dead
And I'm a Nike head, I wear chains that excite the feds
And ain't a damn thing gonna change
I'ma performer  show the mic warmer was born to gain
Nas, why did you do it?
You know you got the mad fat fluid when you rhyme, it's halftime
 It's halftime
 Aiyyo it's halftime
 It's halftime
 Yeah, it's about halftime
This is how it feel, check it out, how it feel
It's like that, you know it's like that
I got it hemmed, now you never get the mic back
When I attack, there ain't an army that could strike back
So I react never calmly on a hype track
I set it off with my own rhyme
Cause I'm as ill as a convict who kills for phone time
I'm max like cassettes, I flex like sex
in your stereo sets, Nas will catch wreck
I used to hustle, now all I do is relax and strive
When I was young, I was a fan of the Jackson 5
I drop jewels, wear jewels, hope to never run it
With more kicks than a baby in a mother's stomach
Nasty Nas has to rise cause I'm wise
This is exercise 'til the microphone dies
Back in eighty-three I was an MC sparking
But I was too scared to grab the mic's in the park and
kick my little raps cause I thought niggaz wouldn't understand
And now in every jam I'm the fuckin man
I rap in front of more niggaz than in the slave ships
I used to watch C.H.I.P.S., now I load glock clips
I got to have it, I miss Mr. Magic
Versatile, my style switches like a faggot
But not bisexual, I'm an intellectual
Of rap, I'm a professional and that's no question, yo
These are the lyrics of the man, you can't near it, understand
Cuz in the streets, I'm well known like the number man
In my place wit the bass and format
Explore rap, and tell me Nas ain't all that
And next time I rhyme, I be foul
Whenever I freestyle I see trial niggaz say I'm wow
I hate a rhymebiter's rhyme
Stay tuned, Nas, soon the real rap comes at halftime
 It's halftime
 Exhale, check it it's halftime
 It's halftime
 It's real in the field
Word life, check it
I got it goin on, even flip 'em on this song
Every afternoon, I kick half the tune
And in the darkness, I'm heartless like when the NARCs hit
Word to Marcus Garvey I hardly sparked it
Cause when I blast the herb, that's my word
I be slayin them fast, doing this that and the third
But chill, past to Andre, and let's slay
I bag bitches up at John Jay, and hit a matinee
Puttin hits on 5-0
Csudr when it's my time to go, I wait for God wit the fo'-fo'
And biters can't come near
And yo, go to hell to the foul cop who shot Garcia
I won't plant seeds, don't need an extra mouth I can't feed
That's extra Phillie change, more cash for that weed
This goes out to Manhattan, the island of Staten
Brooklyn and Queens is livin fat and
The Boogie Down, enough props, enough clout
Ill Will, rest in peace, yo, I'm out
 It's still halftime
 To the Queensbridge crew
To the Queensbridge crew, you know it's halftime
 Ninety-two, it's halftime
 Yo police, police man, yo let's get ghost
Halftime..
__SEPERATE__
So many niggas get fucked up in the game.
See thats where they get caught out there.
Cause its not no fuckin game.
When you hear shells comin at cha.
Hot Ones from a shotgun I betta nigga runs faster.
Loose a shoe to get away from a blaster.
Think about that casket you don't wanna be in that shit.
Quick to take his signin you takin everybodies package.
Money over Bitches was a loyal practice.
So you act is if money was no object.
Spinin 5 zues trips for your whole projects.
Epcot center linins for ya bitches roli's for dogs.
Now we in tha mall slayin by his bitches.
Everyday I reminisin how he was livin havin fun.
Cause any day could have led to prison.
Now for a short bid cause if the feds ever caught kid.
It be like 25 years conspiracy.
Another 25 for refeer snatchin up him and his people.
He had his jeep bullet proof with silencers on the desert eagle.
Flipin bricks in Gary Indiana.
He had it locked down from the streets to the slammer.
Only trusted Two things his trigger and his hammer.
Used to be a bumb till had a six month run.
Had a loss suit three G's the case was won.
Met with mexican hoya cop boya.
Bought barber shop named it after c shaday.
There where they found his body.
In a barber chair face down, bullets in his chest.
Sliced apart from the waist down.
Planned to sell his shop stick hoya for everything he got.
Take jewels and his 5.
Then his shoes where cemented.
Drop his body in the tide but hoya was wise.
Even when he ain't around he got ears and eyes.
Gotta stay a step ahead of this game to stay alive.
Always wanted things always wanted cash.
To Live fast get the girls with tha biggest ass.
Fuck her 9 to 5 gotta drive a 5.
Now that I got it the Hardest Thing To Do Is Stay Alive.
Coke head Saundra she grew in Gruwana.
Her man was large and Saundra was his baby mama.
Stayed in drama Fightin with hood rats that he was fucking.
No job all day she did nothing.
They son was 7 years old, she really was a wifee.
First should she would transport blow overnight for a G.
He paid up front they layed up once.
She got pregnant she would dead it.
She had a boy, named her son infinite after his father who did dirt.
She didn't noses after would follow.
Capsules and bottles and crack in the back of his baga.
He let her drive while he drove the burgandy 5.
He often talked about how he wants to murder these guys.
From off of burger street, had nat workin the street.
Lifestyle richest nigga from how he use to be.
Never thought he'd rock diamonds never took weakness for kindness.
Thats how he gradually grew.
Did a Favor for a favor now the nigga in with the crew.
And Now he live major house in dix hills next to Brook Shields.
With the cook and the maid shit was real.
Saved his first bill, maid, and his bodega.
Good Luck playa sign on the paper taped to the window.
Escaped from a would be kidnapp.
And slept and thought niggas fearless rep until he got wet.
Would had the world in his hands his girl did a scam.
The owners rich is bonin niggas to get rid of her man.
Welcome To The Game Baby.
The Hardest Thing To Do Is Stay Alive...
The Hardest Thing To Do Is Stay Alive...
The Hardest Thing To Do Is Stay Alive...
__SEPERATE__
Escobar season has returned...
It's been a long time, been a long time comin
Looks like the death of me now
But you know, there's no turning back now
This is what makes me - this is what I am
 Feel me?  Let's go
You can hate me now.. but I won't stop now..
Cause I can't stop now.. you can hate me now..
But I won't stop now.. cause I can't stop now..
You can hate me now.. you can hate me NOWWWW..
Q.B., real niggas, Bravehearts, c'mon
Well you hate me I'm gon' hate you too
It's as simple as that
Die motherfucker die motherfucker die
You don't give a fuck I don't give a fuck
Go down any way you want it to go down 
Weak, jealous motherfuckers 
Fuck y'all!
Don't hate me, hate the money I see, clothes that I buy
Ice that I wear, clothes that I try, close your eyes
Picture me rollin, sixes, money foldin
Bitches honies that swollen to riches, Nas get in ya
Most critically acclaimed Pulitzer, prize winner
Best storyteller thug narrator my style's greater
Model dater, big threat to a lot of you haters
Commentators ringside try watchin my paper
Almost a decade, quite impressive
Most of the best is in the essence
for this rap shit that I stand for
Expandin more to the big screen, Bill Gates dreams
But it seems you'd rather see me in jail with state greens
Want me off the scene fast, but good things last
like your favorite MC still makin some mean cash
First rapper to bring a platinum plaque, back to the projects
but you still wanna hate, be my guest, I suggest
Money is power motherfucker
I got millions of thugs on salary, bitch 
I won't stop
I can't stop
You can hate me
I hate you too
You can hate me now..
You can hate me now..
 Do it now, I told you do it now
 Let's go
You wanna hate me then hate me; what can I do
but keep gettin money, funny I was just like you
I had to hustle hard never give up, until I made it
Now y'all sayin that's a clever nigga, nuttin to play with
Hate on me, I blew but I'm the same ol G
People warn me, when you're on top there's envy
Took my niggas out the hood, but you doubt on us
Sayin we left the hood but can't get it out of us
My bad, should I step out my shoes, give 'em to you?
Here's my cars and my house, you can live in that too
Criticize when I flow for the streets, hate my dress code
Gucci this, Fendi that, what you expect hoe?
Nickname Esco', took this game to its threshold
Best flow I bet the whole U.S. know
Try to make it like you the realest, but who the illest?
Think we all know the answer to that, cause niggas feel this right
You think I'ma come this far, and let you niggas stop me now?
I hate you too!!  
I won't stop
I can't stop
You can hate me
I hate you too
You can hate me now..
You can hate me now..
 I like this.. I like the way this feels
It's a thin line between paper and hate
friends and snakes, nine millis and thirty-eights
Hell or the pearly gates; I was destined to come
Predicted, blame God, he blew breath in my lungs
Second to none, wicked turn wives to widows
Shoot through satin pillows, the desolate one
Took a little time to claim my spot
Chairman of the board until this game stop, and I side with the Lord
Ride for the cause while drivin niggas shot at my doors
Plottin I'm sure to catch me with they glocks to my jaws
Tried, stickin me up, but I flipped on these ducks 
Instead of me, ambulances were picking them up 
Niggas fear what they don't understand, hate what they can't conquer
Guess it's just the fury of man
Became a monster, on top of the world, never fallin
I'm as real as they come, from day one, forever ballin
C'mon
You ain't never seen a nigga like me, ever in your life
And that's what you can't understand!
You can hate me now
I won't stop
I can't stop
You can hate me
I hate you too
You can hate me now..
You can hate me now..
 You can hate me now
 C'mon niggas
 But I won't stop now
 Do it now! Get this shit over with
 But I won't stop now..
 It ain't gon' never stop niggas
 I can't stop..
__SEPERATE__
Chain gleaming
Switching lanes
Two-seating
Hate him or love him
For the same reason
Can't leave it
The games needs him
Plus the people need someone to believe in
So in God's Son we trust
'Cause they know I'm gonna give 'em what they want
They looking for... a hero
I guess that makes me... a hero
 
Another chapter of the cleanest rapper
Distinguished gentlemen
Crooks and castle on his back
Maybach-er, exotic lady eye-catcher
Holla at'cha, call me the chiropractor
Working like Muay Thai class
Get perspire out ya
And of course I've been the boss since back when
Rocking D Boy, Fila, velour in 190 black Benz
Now they shut down the stores when I'm shopping
Used to be train robbing, face covered in stocking
I'm him
 
 
Rubber-grip-holder, reloader
Come at me I'ma rip your soliders in half
Silverback ape, nickle-plated mag
Young, rich, and flashy
Young, b! tch, I'm nasty
All black clothes til ice lay on me so classy
And every time I close my lids
I can still see the borough, I can still see the Bridge
I can still see the dreams that my niqqas ain't never lived to see
Tell them angels open the door for me
From nine berettas and moving raw
To chilling in wine cellars
Sticks and humidors
That's what I call mature
That's what I call a g
That's what I call a pimp
That's what I call a gangsta
To the fullest, sh! t
I try to make more cream
By every September 14th, that's my dream
So I can be more clean, as I grow yearly
I can see things more clearly
That's why they fear me
 
 
This universal apartheid
I'm hog-tied, the corporate side
Blocking y'all from going to stores and buying it
First L.A. and Doug Morris was riding wit it
But Newsweek article startled big wigs
They said, Nas, why is he trying it? 
My lawyers only see the Billboard charts as winning
Forgetting - Nas the only true rebel since the beginning
Still in musical prison, in jail for the flow
Try telling Bob Dylan, Bruce, or Billy Joel
They can't sing what's in their soul
So untitled it is
I never change nothin'
But people remember this
If Nas can't say it, think about these talented kids
With new ideas being told what they can and can't spit
I can't sit and watch it
So, sh! t, I'ma drop it
Like it or not
You ain't gotta cop it
I'm a hustler in the studio
Cups of Don Julio
No matter what the CD called
I'm unbeatable, y'all
__SEPERATE__
The phone rings
Another peaceful moment is lost
Latifah's chest jingle in "Set It Off"
I press pause in the bed as a king
I let it ring 4 or 5 times
Answer while I'm puffin' my green
It's Tamika sayin', "Hi Nas"
I caught a flashback of her askin' me was I asthmatic 'fore I tapped that
She offered me dinner under the moon
I said, "Sorry. I made plans at Ray's Boom-Boom Room"
Nine push-ups... Strength's gone at the tenth one so why hook up
The pimp's gone off the Platron Tequila
Put on my Lee's and the original Fila's
Sedated from L's, 380 cocked, naked ladies laid up in tails
Like Whodini I chose, gazelles don't lean on my nose
Drivin' by the clubs gleamin' and go
Heads turn it's a freak show
I need them to know... When will they learn 
Nas need a queen not a hoe to... 
Point out my enemies, a girl who's into me
But not a hype chick- someone with proper energy
Someone who's into me but won't fuck with my enemies
And you can sing along 'cuz I'm feelin' ya energy
]
Hey Nas... How ya doin'? 
Take my name... And my number
Meanwhile... We'll be groovin'
But let's take... it... slow
One for the honeys who roll blunts up but don't smoke
Two for the few who see potential in you when you broke
Three for the G they got, they game is hot I give it to you
Double life wife- play with the man that's livin' with you
Here's the issue... A woman gotta be stunnin'
Get to a man's heart through his stomach
You gotta be skilled in the culinary arts
Know a brother stay mad hungry when he spark
Hit the museum, maybe Central Park, you mentally smart
Picture we in Tiffany, you becomin' my counterpart
If I want Chinese then you buy me a wok
If you want barbeque I call Professor and Ock
'Cuz u... point out my enemies, someone who's into me
But not a hyper chick- someone with the proper energy
A girl that's into me who won't fuck all my enemies
And you could be the one 'cuz I'm lovin' ya energy
]
Hey Nas... How ya doin'?
Take my name... And my number
Meanwhile... We'll be cruisin'
But let's take... it... slow
Slow is the way
Holdin' hands, tongue and hickeys
Hope and I pray where I run at you run away with me
That's if my gun get busy we gotta get outta there
Hear sirens jump in the stick drop a Sedan and hide for years
Like noone else in the world did this except for us two
You gotta trust me, I gotta trust you
If coppers bust me it's me you rescue, this to the death boo
You rep me respectfully that's how I rep for you
Retired from pimpin', perspire is drenchin'
As we... suck and fuck each other's minds out commission
Time's out forbidden
Until we pass out, that's when we stop
We give it all we got, give it all we got- we hot
Give it all we got, give it all we got- we rock
Give it all we got, give it all we got
You 'bout the baddest thing
Since Michael had Billy Jean
And Prince gave you diamond's and pearls
But to be my queen you must... 
Point out my enemies, a girl who's into me
But not a hype chick- someone with proper energy
Someone who's into me who won't fuck all my enemies
And you can be the one 'cuz I'm feelin' ya energy
]
Hey Nas... How ya doin'?
Take my name... And my number
Meanwhile... We'll be cruisin'
But let's take... it... slow
]
I can be... What you said
That you need... I can be...All that
I can be... I can have your back... baby
__SEPERATE__
At the count of three
I want ya'll to tell me the name of my new DJ
1, 2, 3,.. 4, 5
The wild Gremlins
Ya'll know the F. right?
When the winner lose... and the loosers win
Nobody scores just a few good men
But everybody sins
A lot of young die
Fall in the trap, strung high
Try to go illegal, but the hood calling you back
Flipping the crack, cause I miss it for example
Watching base-heads wildin on my first sample
I elevated up, since my snakes in my circumference
Now I hit my niggas with cakes and say, "Pump This"
Thank god for cracks, corners, and marijuana
Hoodrats and good gats to carry on ya
I got dead friends, misled friends, crackhead friends
Wild Gremlins, who "bust led" friends
Silent weapons for quiet wars
Allow gats,
Tussle too long, some shiny moves the crowd back
It's powerful, niggas would die over respect
And money is secondary to that whole aspect
I Love it, when I'm... High
I'm at my Best, when I'm... Hiiigh
I like my sex, when I'm... Hii-iiigh
Cash, Tecs... Flash Tecs, when I ride through ya projects
And clap at sets, a nigga... High
North, South, East, West, riders get... Hiiigh
I take ya'll niggas on a lyrical... Hii-iiigh
I twist it up, Listen up to the real shit, feel this, REALNESS!
Niggas rushing to the top, not knowing what it takes to be...
King Of The Industry, the wise move patiently
Ya niggas is hating me, won't be happy till I'm back witcha...
Selling crack witcha, half & half on a pack witcha
My pen and pad, paint a black picture...
Of young ghouls passing liquor, after-hour store mass and figures
Street corner combos, stagger and Wan knows...
Tahoes coming through, blasting songs I know
Niggas schieme, girls pregnant by sixteen
Clique out to get rich...
Empty clips for cream
Same funeral home, for different stiff bodies
Once I'm up a new family goes there, it don't surprise me
Cry to the tears, dried up inside me
Revenge to the end, laws in NYC
Got up by the way I used to be...
Apartment 5D... where dope fiends in the hall try your knob when you sleep
Surveilance Cameras in my house now, watching you creep
Spot you from deep, guns for all possible beef
Niggas try to rock you asleep
Kidnap your whole fam for a week
Asking for ransom, niggas straving, dieing to eat
I Love it, when I'm... High
I'm at my Best, when I'm... Hiiigh
Yo... I like my sex, when I'm... Hii-iiigh
Cash, Tecs... Flash Tecs, when I ride through ya projects
And clap at sets, a nigga... High
North, South, East, West, riders get... Hiiigh
I take ya'll niggas on a lyrical... Hii-iiigh
I twist it up, Listen up to the real shit, feel this, REALNESS!
__SEPERATE__
"Hip hop" "hip hop" "is dead"
"Hip--hip hop" "hip hop" "is dead"
"Hip--hip hop" "hip--hip hop" "is dead"
"Hip--hip hop" "hip hop" "hip hop"
If hip hop should die before I wake
I'll put an extended clip inside of my AK
Roll to every station, murder the DJ
Roll to every station, murder the DJ
Hip hop just died this mornin'
And she's dead, she's dead
Yeah, niggaz smoke, laugh, party, and die in the same corner
Get cash, live fast, body their man's mama
Rich ass niggaz is ridin' with three llamas
Revenge in their eyes, Hennesy and the ganja
Word to the wise with villain state of minds
Grindin', hittin' Brazilian dimes from behind
Grindin', hittin' Brazilian dimes from behind
Whenever, if ever, I roll up, it's sown up
Any ghetto will tell ya Nas helped grow us up
My face once graced promotional Sony trucks
Hundred million in billin', I helped build 'em up
Gave my nigga my right, I could have gave left
So like my girl Foxy, a nigga went Def
So nigga, who's your top ten?
Is it MC Shan? Is it MC Ren?
Hip hop just died this mornin'
And she's dead, she's dead
The bigger the cap, the bigger the peelin'
Come through, something ill, missin' the ceilin'
What influenced my raps? Stick ups and killings
Kidnappings, project buildings, drug dealings
Criticize that, why is that?
Cuz Nas rap is compared to legitimized crap
Cuz we love to talk on ass we gettin'
Most intellectuals will only half listen
So you can't blame jazz musicians
Or David Stern with his NBA fashion issues
Oh I they like me--in my white tee
You can't ice me, we here for life B
On my second marriage, hip hop's my first wifey
And for that we not takin' it lightly
If hip hop should die we die together
Bodies in the morgue lie together
All together now
Hip hop just died this mornin'
Hip hop just died this mornin'
Hip hop just died this mornin'
And she's dead, she's dead
Everybody sound the same, commercialize the game
Reminiscin' when it wasn't all business
If it got where it started
So we all gather here for the dearly departed
Hip hopper since a toddler
One homeboy became a man then a mobster
If the guys let me get my last swig of Vodka
R.I.P., we'll donate your lungs to a rasta
Went from turntables to mp3s
From "Beat Street" to commercials on Mickey D's
From gold cables to Jacobs
From plain facials to Botox and face lifts
I'm lookin' over my shoulder
It's about eighty niggaz from my hood that showed up
And they came to show love
Sold out concert and the doors are closed shut
__SEPERATE__
I gotta lay down the block, when the block is hot
I gotta use my imagination, to change the situation
I gotta lay down the block, when the block is hot
I gotta use my imagination, to change the situation
Yea, Feds feast on street dons, look at their teeth showin'
Salivatin' at the mouth, South to East Orange
Keep pourin' that liquor, but nigga don't sleep on it
You'll be givin' up your Jesus piece to your peeps to pawn it
For legal fees in the penal dorm
Screamin' on the horn with 'bout thirty years on your conscience
I'm watchin' brothers disappear, it's appallin'
Some dudes had just only a year of ballin'
Counter-intelligence found a strange evidence 
Still we behind the wheel with heat on us, hangin' with predicates
Position we placed in caves in, so they got us caged in
Ways spinnin' like Mike Bivens from New Edition aging 
I got families I'm feeding 'cause my mans is bleeding
Every five seconds look in all directions
I come through prepared; I give 'em a call
I'm close, bring them guns downstairs
I gotta lay down the block, when the block is hot
I gotta use my imagination, to change the situation
I gotta lay down the block, when the block is hot 
I gotta use my imagination, to change the situation
Uh, uh, it's beef week, Monday, murder
Two niggaz dead, Tuesday
Wednesday and Thursday is hearse-day
Friday, somebody-gotta-die-day
Saturday, put the gat away
Chillin' wit your chick and a bag of haze
Wonderin' how it's all gon' end and what type of way
'Cause Sunday back to gunplay
Mo' shit start over nothin'
And get finished quick 'cause the art of repercussion
Yeah, I seen it, a G' going out indecent 
Takin' a plea agreement, thinkin' he secret
Escape the crime scene, now you live straight like 9:15
Then one-time intervene 
My man ain't like me sayin' I don't care if I die
But the SIG Sauer on me now I'm scared to die
You thinkin' the one I send to clap you be a shorty
But he old school, holdin' a .38, he in his forties
I gotta lay down the block, when the block is hot
I gotta use my imagination, to change the situation
I gotta lay down the block, when the block is hot
I gotta use my imagination, to change the situation
 Anytime brothers can't get jobs, then they rob
 A man rather die than live on his knees and starve
Cops steady askin' your man what happened
First he tell then he stop, like he not really rattin'
Guess he not really in that casket from a sawed-off 
Listen, peep game from the brain of an all-star
The rain hurt niggaz bones who been shot
Metal pins in their leg, they walk with a limp-hop
The streets lie,  so you better be cautious
Your man'll fry you plus, everybody talkin'
A vet, a General, don't step where I walked in
Make your own path, be a legend in your skin
Make your own cash, don't stress what I'm forcin'
Don't expect more when you put in less work than all them
Queensbridge projects has taught him, and that's for life
You heard me right, I got the block 
When the block is hot
I gotta use my imagination, to change the situation
I gotta hold down the block, when the block is hot
I gotta use my imagination, to change the situation
I gotta hold down the block, when the block is hot
I gotta use my imagination, to change the situation
__SEPERATE__
Hip-Hop -  it will never die
Hip-Hop - Hip-Hop will never, never die
Ghetto niggaz struttin' with nothin' but dreams and Queens broke
Mack-10's, you can smell the PCP smoke
Mele Mel told it real in the music he wrote
Those were the days I remember
We used to be close, then I was nine, coldest winter I remember
Was slippin' in December, two feet of snow
Yeah, that's the East Coast, that black ice
Symbolized the rap life
It was slick and smooth
I understood I had to come from the hood
Doin' the Pee Wee Herman, the Smurf
Before them phones chirped
The block's drugs flowin', didn't have your own work
You had to have somebody else's, a small chrome on your pelvis
Starter Jacket, Blue Georgetown or Green Celtic
Your girl's too expensive, she wants shellfish
Red Lobster was poppin', standin' on that line forever
I wish somebody would step on my Bally leather's
Now it's whatever... hip-hop's forever
Kept my radio on 98 or BLS
Had a pre-pubescent lyric gift but niggaz never hear me spit
My little brother tried to warn 'em, I was a tornado comin'
He knew from inside, like the eye of a storm
And told my pops about it
He gave us tickets to that Wild Style flick
Double Trouble, retarded, we was the proudest
I never had a summer job
Sweepin' leaves, socks to my knees
Homemade shorts cutoff, Lee's
I ain't work a day in my life
Wipin' away eraser of the paper man
I'm just tryin' to say it right
Big radio, tape slowin' down
Lower the lights go, battery dead
I gotta freeze 'em 'til they ice cold
In the freezer later, I'm starin' at the speaker
Sunk in them 808's deeper, cleanin' my sneakers
Wit the bristles of a toothbrush, soap and water
I let the shoe strings soak in water...
Live hip-hop live, live hip-hop live
Give hip-hop give, give hip-hop give
Stay hip-hop stay, stay hip-hop stay
I pray, hip-hop pray, I pray hip-hop stays
Ain't got nothin' to do wit old school, new school
Dirty South, West Coast, East Coast
This about us, this our thing, 'knaw'sayin'?
This came from the gut, from the blood, from the soul
Right here man, this is our thing man
You know, so I say what I say
And I say what I say, and I mean it
Y'all take it how you wanna take it
Cause if you're askin' - Why is hip-hop dead?
It's a pretty good chance you're the reason it died, man
It's a pretty good chance your lame ass, corny ass, is the reason it died, man
You don't give a fuck about, you don't know nothin' about it
You want this paper, be a hustler
You a hustler, you ain't a rapper
Get your paper man
YouknowwhatI'msayin, but this rap shit is real
Bitch, this shit is real, bitch, ha-ha
Live hip-hop live,  live hip-hop live
Give hip-hop give, give hip-hop give
Stay hip-hop stay,  stay hip-hop stay 
I pray, hip-hop pray, I pray hip-hop stays
Live hip-hop live,  live hip-hop live
Give hip-hop give, give hip-hop give
Stay hip-hop stay, stay hip-hop stay
I pray, hip-hop pray, I pray hip-hop stays
__SEPERATE__
Dre, he a Compton-Compton O.G.
Nas, he a QB-QB true G
Do the history
Way before The Firm, like back in the day
Nas was the first New York nigga rappin' with Dre
So of course I got a track to bring it back to your face
The one kid that would've been Aftermath that got away
But we still get together like every several years
to sprinkle, a little bit of Heaven for your ears
Relax sippin' Calico in Rio, stupid fuckers
Low-key, know G's, but it's still Gucci luggage
I love Cape Cod, and watchin' fly bitches with grey eyes
wrestle in a tub of KY to get my day by
I like to celebrate, why? - 'cause I can vision
collages and images of my lies with no regret to hate
So every breath I take, is all about the rules
It's hard for you to breathe like you at high altitude
So crack the Patron, it's on heathens, The God's back
Hard body, Mr. Jones never leavin'
Hustlers, dealers, drop-top riders
Make that cake, cop two five fivers
Pimps and players, platinum diamonds
East to West Coast we riders
]
He a Compton-Compton O.G.
 A concoction of some different ghetto blocks
 East Coast gunshots
1995, eleven years from the day
I'm in the record shop with choices to make
"Illmatic" on the top shelf, "The Chronic" on the left homie
Wanna cop both but only got a twenty on me
So fuck it, I stole both, spent the twenty on a dub sack
Ripped the package off "Illmatic" and bumped that
For my niggaz it was too complex when Nas rhymed
I was the only Compton nigga with a "New York State of Mind"
Inside the dope house bottlin' up sherm, bangin' The Firm
Dre was king then so I waited my turn
Fast forward, now I'm makin 'em burn
Ended my peers careers, hollered at Nas, a hard lesson was learned
So I reconciled my differences like he did with Jigga
I stopped beefin' with niggaz, 'cause I'm "Ether" to niggaz
Comb the earth 'til there's no one left
"If I Ruled the World" I summons all you weak rap niggaz to death
]
He a Compton-Compton O.G.
 A concoction of some different ghetto blocks
 East Coast gunshots
Yo, the Jordans sportin'
Come off the dice game with a fortune walkin', you a walkin' coffin'
The musket I tucked it, you bluff it I bust it
You're sideways talkin', so I lay often
I wait patient, to duct tape hatin'
Fuck ass niggaz, get bucked ass niggaz
Pluck ashes - of Cuban cigars, you foolin' with Nas
That's my name and I came with Rugers this time
And if I'm sane that "Soul Plane" movie's the bomb
Word to my mom's name tattooed to my arm
You can't revolve me, embalm me, calm me or harm me
Rob me or dodge these bullets I'm bustin'
See that's malarky you yappin'
I open up the tripod to put the gatling on, and I start clappin'
Nasty man, from baggin' grams and runnin' from cops
to a mill' on the hand, a mill' on the watch, I'm fuckin' with Doc
Hustlers, dealers, drop-top riders
Make that cake, cop two five fivers
Pimps and players, platinum diamonds
East to West Coast we ridin'
]
He a Compton-Compton O.G.
 A concoction of some different ghetto blocks
 East Coast gunshots
__SEPERATE__
Yea
Man prince was a pimp appolonia, vanity, Sheila E. had me on the edge of insanity
Swore if I made it in music I'd be similar here I am, this is the future, im where the woman are
Rocking wit teninbam, y'all need me, shine a spotlight up, in the sky like batman, I pops right up this is Nas hate if u must hate been hot since the days of cassette tapes t-shirts over the thermals dripped in our memories sipping that Hennessey .45th in my denim jeans, she told me she was my eyelashes when we hump I grunt just like a bull mastiff, they call me the best who ever did it, only in the club one minute guess who I slip wit, a chocolate dike ghetto thing sweet, we going to pop tonight, bon apatite
Do you know who I am? And she says
La lalala I already know
What we can't hold hands? And she says
La lalala I already know
You got to leave by three? U wit me?
La lalala I already know
So until next week? U know ma
La lalala I already know
U know Mirror mirror on the wall who's the nastiest sexiest thug of them all, I seen her in the mall she was wearing home degarsole keyoke mose cherry cologne she was lookin very alone till this big weightlifting mister universe clone starts grabbing her own , she cant stop looking im in the zone one look at the kid she taking of her stone, cash crazy ass crazy hair long and baby amaze me because im in rare form she like an ice cold bowl of post honeycomb, followed me in the shop while I cop menna someone, tap me on the shoulder I told her I her im on the phone, I played it off well nobody was on the cell, shit she said the tone?
She said mister so and so should I leave you alone?
Tick tock Tick tock time is passing, hello turn the television off, focus here
You know, lover not a fighter I'm the vagina liner re constructor, bed sheet ruffler, for u freak girls under cover who loves ya? Im not a priest don't front for me, but step in my confessional, that's the bedroom , tell the truth ill be impressional wait before u pass ur collection plate, show me u a professional so we straight? She tried to kiss her lips but no I don't do that, want me to kiss her lips but not where the newdge at, few stacks spend my chips, yea I do that, see the problem wit you woman is, look I got em' u can hear a mouse piss on cotton, u don't want to miss it then listen stop stressing the man we out to get as much sex as we can, and u roll wit the plan shorty u lie but u got to leave, 2:45
__SEPERATE__
I know I can  
Be what I wanna be  
If I work hard at it 
I'll be where I wanna be 
Be, B-Boys and girls, listen up 
You can be anything in the world, in God we trust
An architect, doctor, maybe an actress 
But nothing comes easy it takes much practice
Like, I met a woman who's becoming a star
She was very beautiful, leaving people in awe
Singing songs, Lina Horn, but the younger version
Hung with the wrong person
Got her strung on that
Heroin, cocaine, sniffin up drugs all in her nose...
Coulda died, so young, now looks ugly and old
No fun cause now when she reaches for hugs people hold they breath
Cause she smells of corrosion and death 
Watch the company you keep and the crowd you bring
Cause they came to do drugs and you came to sing
So if you gonna be the best, I'ma tell you how,
Put your hands in the air, and take a vow
]
I know I can  
Be what I wanna be  
If I work hard at it 
I'll be where I wanna be 
Be, B-Boys and girls, listen again
This is for grown looking girls who's only ten
The ones who watch videos and do what they see
As cute as can be, up in the club with fake ID
Careful, 'fore you meet a man with HIV
You can host the TV like Oprah Winfrey 
Whatever you decide, be careful, some men be
Rapists, so act your age, don't pretend to be 
Older than you are, give yourself time to grow
You thinking he can give you wealth, but so
Young boys, you can use a lot of help, you know
You thinkin life's all about smokin weed and ice
You don't wanna be my age and can't read and write
Begging different women for a place to sleep at night
Smart boys turn to men and do whatever they wish
If you believe you can achieve, then say it like this
Be, be, 'fore we came to this country 
We were kings and queens, never porch monkeys
There was empires in Africa called Kush 
Timbuktu, where every race came to get books
To learn from black teachers who taught Greeks and Romans
Asian Arabs and gave them gold when 
Gold was converted to money it all changed 
Money then became empowerment for Europeans
The Persian military invaded 
They heard about the gold, the teachings, and everything sacred
Africa was almost robbed naked
Slavery was money, so they began making slave ships 
Egypt was the place that Alexander the Great went 
He was so shocked at the mountains with black faces
Shot up they nose to impose what basically 
Still goes on today, you see? 
If the truth is told, the youth can grow 
Then learn to survive until they gain control
Nobody says you have to be gangstas, hoes
Read more learn more, change the globe
Ghetto children, do your thing
Hold your head up, little man, you're a king
Young Princess when you get your wedding ring
Your man is saying "She's my queen"
Save the music y'all, save the music y'all
Save the music y'all, save the music y'all
Save the music
__SEPERATE__
]
Life..... I wonder....
Will it take me under.... I don't know
Imagine smoking weed in the streets without cops harassing
Imagine going to court with no trial
Lifestyle cruising blue behind my waters
No welfare supporters more conscious of the way we raise our daughters
Days are shorter, nights are colder
Feeling like life is over, these snakes strike like a cobra
The world's hot my son got knocked evidentaly
It's elementary, they want us all gone eventually
Trooping out of state for a plate knowledge
of coke was cooked without the garbage we'd all have the top dollars
Imagine everybody flashing, fashion
Designer clothes, lacing your click up with diamond vogues
Your people holding dough, no parole
No rubbers, go in raw imagine law with no undercovers
Just some thoughts for the mind
I take a glimpse into time
watch the blimp read "The World Is Mine"
If I ruled the world
Imagine that
I'd free all my sons, I love em love em baby
Black diamonds and pearls
Could it be, if you could
be mine, we'd both shine
If I ruled the world
Still living for today, in
these last days and times
The way to be, paradise like relaxing black, latino and anglo-saxon
Armani exchange the reins
Cash, Lost Tribe of Shabazz, free at last
Brand new whips to crash then we laugh in the iller path
The Villa house is for the crew, how we do
Trees for breakfast, dime sexes and Benz stretches
So many years of depression make me vision
The better living, type of place to raise kids in
Open they eyes to the lies history's told foul
But I'm as wise as the old owl, plus the Gold Child
Seeing things like I was controlling, click rolling
Tricking six digits on kicks and still holding
Trips to Paris, I civilized every savage
Gimme one shot I turn trife life to lavish
Political prisoner set free, stress free
No work release purple M3's and jet skis
Feel the wind breeze in West Indies
I make Coretta Scott-King mayor the cities and reverse themes to Willies
It sounds foul but every girl I meet to go downtown
I'd open every cell in Attica send em to Africa
If I ruled the world
Imagine that
I'd free all my sons, I love em love em baby
Black diamonds and pearls
Could it be, if you could
be mine, we'd both shine
If I ruled the world
Still living for today, in
these last days and times
And then we'll walk right up to the sun
Hand in hand
We'll walk right up to the sun
We won't land
We'll walk right up to the sun
Hand in hand
We'll walk right up to the sun
We won't land
You'd love to hear the story how the thugs live in worry
Duck down in car seats, heat's mandatory
Running from Jake, gettin chased, hunger for papes
These are the breaks many mistakes go down out of state
Wait, I had to let it marinate we carry weight
Trying to get laced, flip the ace stack the safe
Millionaire plan to keep the gat with the cop camera
Making moves in Atlanta, back and forth scrambler
Cause you could have all the chips, be poor or rich
Still nobody want a nigga having shit
If I ruled the world and everything in it, sky's the limit
I push a Q-45 Infinit
It wouldn't be no such thing as jealousies or B Felonies
Strictly living longevity to the destiny
I thought I'd never see but reality struck
Better find out before your time's out, what the fuck??
If I ruled the world
Imagine that
I'd free all my sons, I love em em baby
Black diamonds and pearls
Could it be, if you could
be mine, we'd both shine
If I ruled the world
Still living for today, in
these last days and times
If I ruled the world, if I ruled, if I ruled
Imagine that
I'd free all my sons, if I ruled, if I ruled
I love em love em baby
Black diamonds and pearls, black diamonds
Could it be, if you could
black diamonds
be mine, we'd both shine
If I ruled the world
Still living for today, in
these last days and times
If I ruled the world, if I ruled
if I ruled, I'd free all my sons
black diamonds, I love em love em baby
Black diamonds and pearls, if I ruled
If I ruled the world
If I ruled the world
I love em love em baby!!
__SEPERATE__
]
Oooh oooh, oooooooooooooooohhhhhhhh! The stuggles of life! 
Oooh, oooh, oooh, da da da da da da! 
Oh, oh  Do do do do do do! 
Before I use to dream I could rule the world
Now it's thoro I survived the perils in my fly apparel
Seven forty five appeal, no candy paint no chrome wheels
I Close deals tried to see my face on my own bills
The president here, he's honest and fair
Prayed for the days, when the kins of slaves is honered and shared
January 20th I was there
I'm aware the part I played to get young voters to care
Recession is a blessin in disguise
For a new economy to rise somethin old has to die
I'm still sippin Rose' PJ's it be's like that
I brung the eighty seven Fila's back
Save collect, B.I.G.'S dream came correct
Tryin to put seven hundreds, they made them yes
I used to think United College Fund was for bums 
The ghetto advocate for education look what I become
Before I use to dream I ruled the world
{I use to have to imagine, now I can actually have it}
So here I am, to rule the world, world
But now you used to dream you ruled the world
{I use to dream} 
So here we are, are, are, are 
I don't say I'm maintainin, that's a lame's language 
Poor English, from a wise man I learned paitence
Me not distinguished, is like a fiendless Queensbridge
I don't say I'm grindin, 'cause everything I do is redefining
'Cause when you know the streets to the science
Apply it very moderate, 'til your business'll watch you profit
Rap game, NBA to NFL, the kids'll yell, "Will I win? "
The fella ends up in the cell - nonsense
'Cause they can grow to be part of the Congress
Be responsive, to these inner-city problems
Behind a tent with a chauffer, I rep for the culture
Rep for the thugs and STILL see eye to eye with Oprah
I was a dreamer a wisher would hope for
A better life for these kids while I sip on a Mosa
I plan yo, you should watch the black and white's hand, yo
Who's the best? Next to me, they couldn't light a candle
Yep!
Before I use to dream I ruled the world
{I use to have to imagine, now I can actually have it}
So here I am, to rule the world, world
But now you used to dream you ruled the world
{I use to dream} 
So here we are, are, are, are 
]
You can be who you wanna, say what you wanna 
Tryna make it better, our sons and our daughters 
Use your mind - make a change
Yes, we can - see a brighter day
Gon' be struggle, gon' be pain
But no excuses to be made
This is the time that we've been waiting foooooooooor!
I done seen it all, I got it on with the weak and strong
There's no relief, it's like the beef keeps keepin on
I can't count the amount I drew heaters on
'Cause we was warrin in the Ps', it was Vietnam
Now I got you in arenas, watchin me perform
The songs rappin 'bout them same beefs and the street I'm from
Thankful, for the art form I'm eatin from
I never see no losses, I only see we won - yeah
Before I use to dream I ruled the world
{I use to have to imagine, now I can actually have it}
So here I am, to rule the world, world
But now you used to dream you ruled the world
{I use to dream} 
So here we are, are, are, are 
Before I use to dream I ruled the world
{I use to have to imagine, now I can actually have it}
So here I am, to rule the world, world
But now you used to dream you ruled the world
{I use to dream} 
So here we are, are, are, are
__SEPERATE__
Damn!  Look how muh-fuckers use a nigga
Just use me for whatever the fuck they want
I don't get to say shit
Just grab me, just do what the fuck they want
Sell me, throw me away
Niggaz just don't give a fuck about a nigga like me right?
Like I'm a f... I'm a gun, shit
It's like I'm a motherfuckin gun
I can't believe this shit....
Word up.. 
I seen some cold nights and bloody days
They grab and me bullets spray
They use me wrong so I sing this song 'til this day
My body is cold steel for real
I was made to kill, that's why they keep me concealed
Under car seats they sneak me in clubs
Been in the hands of mad thugs
They feed me when they load me with mad slugs
Seventeen precisely, one in my head
They call me Desert Eagle, semi-auto with lead
I'm seven inches four pounds, been through so many towns
Ohio to Little Rock to Canarsie, livin harshly
Beat up and battered, they pull me out
I watch as niggaz scattered, makin me kill
But what I feel it never mattered
When I'm empty I'm quiet, findin myself fiendin to be fired
A broken safety, niggaz place me in shelves
under beds, so I beg for my next owner to be a thoroughbred
Keep me full up with hollow heads
]
How you like me now?  I go blaow
It's that shit that moves crowds makin every ghetto foul
I might have took your first child
Scarred your life, crippled your style
I gave you power
I made you buck wild
Always I'm in some shit, my abdomen is the clip
The barrel is my dick, uncircumcised
Pull my skin back and cock me, I bust off when they unlock me
Results of what happens to niggaz shock me
I see niggaz bleedin runnin from me in fear, stunningly tears
fall down the eyes of these so-called tough guys, for years
I've been used in robberies, givin niggaz heart to follow me
Placin peoples in graves, funerals made cause I was sprayed
I was laid in a shelf, with a grenade
Met a wrecked-up tech with numbers on his chest that say 
Five-two-oh-nine-three-eight-five and zero
Had a serial defaced, hopin one day, police would place
where he came from, a name or some sort of person to claim him
Tired of murderin, made him wanna be a plain gun
But yo I had some other plans, like the next time the beef is on
I make myself jam right in my owner's hand
Yo, weeks went by and I'm surprised
Still stuck in the shelf with all the things that an outlaw hides
Besides me it's bullets, two vests and then a nine
There's a grenade in a box, and that tech that kept cryin
Cause he ain't been cleaned in a year, he's rusty as clear
He's bout to fall to pieces, cause of his murder career
Yo, I can hear somebody comin in, open the shelf
His eyes bubblin, he said, "It was on"
I felt his palm troubled him shakin
Somebody stomped him out, his dome was achin
He placed me on his waist, the moment I've been waitin
My creation was for blacks to kill blacks
It's gats like me that accidentally, go off, makin niggaz memories
But this time, it's done intentionally
He walked me outside, saw this cat
Cocked me back, said, "Remember me?"
He pulled the trigger but I held on, it felt wrong
Knowing niggaz is waiting in hell for 'im
He squeezed harder, I didn't budge, sick of the blood
Sick of the thugs, sick of wrath of the, next man's grudge
What the other kid did was pull out, no doubt
A newer me in better shape, before he lit out, he lead the chase
My owner fell to the floor, his wig split so fast
I didn't know he was hit, it's over with
Heard mad niggaz screamin, niggaz runnin, cops is comin
Now I'm happy, until I felt somebody else grab me
Damn!
__SEPERATE__
Jah told you in his own words
And I’ll see you through
To guide you through this cold world
And I’ll see you through
Jah told you in his own words
And I’ll see you through
To guide you through this cold world
And I’ll see you through
Two steps away from death, a vest and a holster
I detest detectives arresting us over
Weapons possession, they was checking the Rover
Inspecting the tattoos on my neck and my shoulder
How many times I’m one of six coffin-holders
Or sitting with goons in a visiting room
Flip it, I could’ve been you
Behind state walls bidding
These are the things that a G pray for, acquit us
A little stash in the safe or a little shorty to wait for
Or a shorty to take the weight for him
What really did I escape from?
Thought I saw God’s face on the design on my vintage Claiborne
Swear I see em every day in the bus or the train
Or the billboards out there that hang tall
I still give thanks for him, have faith for him
No matter what his name’s called
Hey can you think of a colour that you’ve never seen?
Can you reminisce on places you’ve never been?
Well is many are called
But them never deemed
Worthy for the cause
Cause them never clean
Help who help themselves
Jah nuh raffle dream
That’s why me chummy with Jah Jah
Like a Cherubim
Keep us strong through the winter like an Evergreen
And all of us are more connected than it ever seems
All things are related and creation is a package
Generate together and we increase the wattage
A how them a go manage?
Tell Babylon them can’t do Rasta damage
Nor stop we through the passage
Jah did make a promise, God is always honest
Always keep his word, don’t care what the plan is
Don’t be astonished
Stumbling bocks vanish
One day the meek gonna live inna di palace, Woah!
Some people ask me if I feel the zionists are real
And in my songs do I plan to expose and reveal
Word to the curb that’s under these chrome wheels
My homies is only ones I’m taking care of
But severe reality starts to become more clear
And these know-it-all rappers have become more weird
As if they were superior and fans are inferior
How I balance between the streets and the theories of
Collegiate literature, I hold mirrors up
Give combinations of pain, joy, fear, and love
Through my perspective I can see Jah reflection
In the highest definition getting high with my brethren
Could’ve asked us why Africans dying from circumcision
They lack proper surgeons, suffer malnutrition
Underestimate the wealth of their own wisdom
It’s like it’s been exchanged for this penicillin
__SEPERATE__
Yo Yo Yo Son
You ever felt a funny vibe
What you supposed to do?
And ya man's ain't ya man's
And ya friend's ain't ya friend's
And ya money ain't yours anymore
And niggas wanna count your money
Niggas wanna see what the fuck you got
You know what I'm sayin
sometimes I gotta take long trips and get away from this shit
I can't take this shit no more
This shit right here be fucking niggas like me up Knowhatimsayin
I been exposed to too much and too long
All my niggaz out there in the hood and shit
That be bringing that real shit
Put your fucking Phillies in the air
Your Back Woods your White Owl
Your Dutchess and we goin smoke and ride to this shit right here
This that real shit here 
this is the soundtrack to the realness right here
Niggaz in too deep knowhatimsayin
It's all real all live nigga what what nigga
Yo A yo A yo A yo
I thank a dead homey
Incarcerated penpal I got the feds on me
A constapated mental 
Always ranged in the ghetto it's pain in the ghetto
Caskets do u believe in angels or devils?
Welfare it's dark and there's no help here
Killing cops shooting black kids the instill fear
But we still here not afraid cracks is made stacks get made
A "g" will get you gats sprayed
At my man's funeral it's like nobody care
The police get shot the mayor and everybody there
Grafitti on the lobby stairs kids with notty heads is greedy
Soldiers small faces painted on the walls
I was born to ball
Rings you can't afford name a clothes line I then worn it before
Dictate the naked soul of Nas henny four fives
Hoe's with thick thighs be the wives of rich guys
Never trust a bitch cuz a bitch lies
Enemys close cuz friends switch sides when shit gets live
Dealin' with a lot of pressure I'm in too deep
Life of a thug born and raised in the streets
 You want war I'mma give u war
 I'm in too deep
 You want peace imma give u peace
 Raised in the streets
 You want love imma show u love
 Life of a thug
 There's no love for me in these streets
 I'm in too deep
 It's just hustlers in the streets 
 Raised in the streets
Yo A yo
When you in too deep you better climb out and find out
Are you the one they looking at cuz when you looking back
It's your time to fear if the drama's severe
I see scars starting off at the side of they're ear
Ending up by the jaw of the throat another law broke
I try to patch it white kids is buying acid
Closing down spots popping a knot
Heard the foremores use binoculars watchin the blocks
Calling phantom on the tape 
I'm the phantom of the wax
Now meat the man behind the music examing the facts 
I use it,  to my advantage do this shit everyday 
Like sneaking gats up in grade eight 
Six Flags catch me getting on the popular rides
If a nigga violate he get top of the line
Small hot ones locked in the spines
Transformed roll out pass it off to my man no doubt
I keep shits disguising six shirts in the trunk
Imagin it gets six times worse when I'm drunk
Prepare for death first of the month
Open and rise, t's right here in front of you open your eyes
I can't explain it cuz it's not normal, is niggas loyal 
I talk about life and live it for you this shit is soil
Like the dirt that I walk on you talk on
You say I had love for ya know it's all gone all gone 
 You want war I'mma give u war
 I'm in too deep
 You want peace imma give u peace
 Raised in the streets
 You want love imma show u love
 Life of a thug
 There's no love for me in these streets
 I'm in too deep
 It's just hustlers in the streets 
 Raised in the street
__SEPERATE__
It ain't hard to tell, I excel, then prevail
The mic is contacted, I attract clientele
My mic check is life or death, breathin a sniper's breath
I exhale the yellow smoke of buddha through righteous steps
Deep like The Shinin', sparkle like a diamond
Sneak a uzi on the island in my army jacket linin
Hit the Earth like a comet, invasion
Nas is like the Afrocentric Asian, half-man, half-amazin
Cause in my physical, I can express through song
Delete stress like Motrin, then extend strong
I drank Moet with Medusa, give her shotguns in hell
From the spliff that I lift and inhale, it ain't hard to tell
 
The buddha monk's in your trunk, turn the bass up
Not stories by Aesop, place your loot up, parties I shoot up
Nas, I analyze, drop a jew-el, inhale from the L
School a fool well, you feel it like braille
It ain't hard to tell, I kick a skill like Shaquille holds a pill
Vocabulary spills I'm +Ill+
plus +Matic+, I freak beats slam it like Iron Shiek
Jam like a tech with correct techniques
So analyze me, surprise me, but can't magmatize me
Scannin while you're plannin ways to sabotage me
I leave em froze like her-on in your nose
Nas'll rock well, it ain't hard to tell
 
This rhythmatic explosion, is what your frame of mind has chosen
I'll leave your brain stimulated, niggaz is frozen
Speak with criminal slang, begin like a violin
End like Leviathan, it's deep well let me try again
Wisdom be leakin out my grapefruit troop
I dominate break loops, givin mics men-e-straul cycles
Street's disciple, I rock beats that's mega trifle
And groovy but smoother than moves by Villanova
You're still a soldier, I'm like Sly Stone in Cobra
Packin like a rasta in the weed spot
Vocals'll squeeze glocks, MC's eavesdrop
Though they need not to sneak
My poetry's deep, I never fell
Nas's raps should be locked in a cell
It ain't hard to tell
__SEPERATE__
Born in NYC beastin’, the lord left me no choice
Christian pendants, Islamic thoughts, criminal courts
Father forgive, I wanna die like Godfather did
Standing in lineups and paying lawyers, aint tryna bid
Alliances, surveillance watching ‘em, careful when plotting
My boys were captured on video, farewell to my partners
Ski mask and fake tags, in case the car was spotted
Lavish hotels, central park west, fly apartments
Lets rob it, forensics get a sentence so be the smartest
It’s live, it’s a Saturday night as I load up a cartridge
Let off the fully, got alliby’s, no need to worry
Done right, we don’t see the prosecutors or grand jury
Reputed Mobster style, take the money and run
Count it in warehouse’s, leave town and live a hundred years like crocodile
Straight up NYC, like a Mets fitted
This a tower heist, even Donald Trump could get it
You want respect money and Power right
Well lets ride tonight, it’s a tower heist
You want respect money and Power right
Well lets ride tonight, it’s a tower heist
Tower heist, even Donald Trump could get it!
I got my shades on, got my money in my pocket, got my J’s on
Spent a hundred for my watch, I feel amaze-on
It’s a jungle in these streets
Choppers be going bang, ya’ll people need me decreased
Everyday is war, living legends you must applause
So light my cigar, for the foreigners living large
Dealing straight raw, the Mercedes in my garage
Your girl on my dick, and I may just feel like menage
I came for the cash, me and Nas behind the mask
Cause bitch, its a heist, give me or lose your life
I profit so nice, me and dog gon’ count it twice
It’s poppin’ tonight, roll a weed, give me a light
You want respect money and Power right
Well lets ride tonight, It’s a tower heist
You want respect money and Power right
Well lets ride tonight, it’s a tower heist
Straight up tower heist, even Donald Trump could get it!
You want respect money and Power right
You want respect money and Power right
It’s a tower heist
__SEPERATE__
Uh huh, a love story, but not your ordinary love story
Not hardly, you heard
Get into this shit right here, check this shit out
You know, check it
As we turn the corner, I count down his name
I felt so ashamed, when it wasn't you
Companions, commitments, relationships
They can be so nice in days picnics, advance slow nights
You start to miss it all when you got no wife
Seeing couples, walking, holding each others hands, talking
Like everything around them don't exist
And yo they stop before crossing the street so they can kiss
That remind me, my love for this 'lil mami
A slim body from Saudi Arabia probably 
We met five day into her stay, a thirty day visit
Her second time in the USA
But my first time to gaze at her
And wave at her was at KNICKS game
Islamic name hard to spit game
My thug look made nervous, her Secret Service
The floor seats next to Spike Lee, I had to purchase
Later we met on Tavern on the Green and after we dined
I said "I got to have you just one time", she said
Seduced her fast, surprised me, laying beside me
Rolling in my satin sheets, flexible body
Hair, black and long, Indian skin completion
Eyes, nose and lips resemble the Egyptian
It's against rules to make conversation, with anybody new
Which was strange in our situation, that admired her more
Everyday I gave her a tour
Of New York streets, the parts that remained hard-core
It was coming to the day when she had to depart
When she left I felt the butcher knife stabbing my heart
Without a number to dial, continent near by the Nile she reside at
She said she would write, so she could fly back
Private airplanes, been a year, letters never came
In the short time we were together it never rained
Just sun shine when our tongues climbed
Each others body, wish I can see you one time, 'cause now
__SEPERATE__
I wanna talk to the mayor, the governor, the motherfuckin president
I wanna talk to the FBI, and the CIA, and the motherfuckin congressman
Step up to the White House let me in
Whats my reason for being I'm ya next to kin
And we built this motherfucker
You wanna kill me because my hunger?
Mr. America young black niggaz want ya
I wanna talk to the man understand
Understand this motherfuckin G-pack in my hand
Look what happened to San Fran young girl hit by policeman
Twelve shots up in her dome, damn
Niggaz thought we slept but the architect sent
The Pentagon's from Egypt, government secret
The 99 to 2-G computer shutdown, what now
Extension on Earth, human cutdown
Niggaz play with PlayStations, they build a spacestations
On Mars plottin civilizations
Dissin us discriminatin different racisis
Tax payers pay for more jail for black latin faces
I'm just a black man why y'all made it so hard damn
Niggaz gotta go create their own job
Mr. Mayor imagine if this was your backyard
Mr. Governor imagine if it was your kids that starved 
Imagine your kids gotta sling crack to survive
Swing a mack to be live  cart ack to get high
It's the ghetto life yea I celebrate it I live it
And all I got is what you left me with I'ma get it
Now y'all combinin all the countries we goin do the same
Combine all the cliques to make one gang
It ain't all about a black and white thing
it's to make the change, citizens of a higher plane
What y'all waitin for the world to blow up
Before you hear this rewind this 4 minutes before we timeless
Let y'all niggas bang my shit before ? is
The Nastradamus tell us what time it is
They try to buy us with doe
Fake black leaders of puppets always talking bout the city budget
The news got it all confused lyin to the public
They eyes watchin stay wise move above it
Water floods predicted hurricanes twisters
Its all signs of the Armageddon three sixes
People reverse the system politics verse religion
Holy war muslim verse christians
Niggaz in high places they don't have the balls for this
People in power sit back and watch them slaughter us
Mr. President I assume it was negligence
The streets upside down, I'm here to represent this
Can I talk to you Mr. President
Niggaz tryin to get with the computers
We ain't John Henry
Banging down machines and shit
Part of establishment
That's what we are steppin up for
This shit is real
Total Package in this nigga
LES in this nigga
Ill Will nigga
Mr. President wanna keep us from establishment 
Niggaz are american baby
American Made
__SEPERATE__
Can we please have a moment of silence?
That's for my niggaz doin' years in confinement
And for my soldiers who passed over, no longer living
That couldn't run whenever the reaper came to get 'em
Can we please pour out some liquor?
Symobolizin', let's take in time to consider that
Though our thugs ain't here, the love is here
And we gon' rep 'til slugs kill us here
This for my dawgs stuck in the struggle tryin' to gain
Smokin' trauma, sniffin' Ra while sellin' cocaine
Trapped in the game, not knowin' how to stop and get by
To live it alive, so instead they live it to die
Can we please have a moment of peace?
For every G that fell for his flag in the streets
Bloodin' and thuggin', folkin' and lokin'
Crypin' and creepin', Latin and kingin'
Or just for poor righteous teachin'
As day comes and night falls
For the rest of our life we'll miss y'all
And even though life must go on, we'll still mourn
While wishin' y'all were home
Yeah, and can we have another moment of silence?
For brothers who died from black-on-black violence
From here to the Dark Continent were rebels sell diamonds
To clients all over the world, got little Black girls dyin'
And can we please pour some more liquors?
For Will, Bokeem, Bar, Pappy -- my niggaz
Here's another Warrior Song from Nasty and Quan
It's to him I pass the baton to carry this on
Street's Disciple, salute to those who's gone with bullets
And I promise through rhymin' Quan gon' rep his life to the fullest
And can we please have a moment of truth?
For soldiers and troops away with helmets and boots
And families back home who pray they make it home safe
Hopin' that they don't get hit with a stray or missiles
This is just a moment to let you all know that we miss you
Mommy I'm still here, wishin' I was there with you
Let's take a moment
And can we please have a moment to mourn?
For Pac, Biggie and Pun 'cause through us they live on
Jam Master Jay, Freaky Ty and Aaliyah
Big L and Left Eye, when we die we hope to see ya
Can we please have a moment for children?
Who got raped or murdered, or trapped in the system
Who never knew their father, never learned to dream
But was guided by drug dealers, killers and crack fiends
For single mothers that's forced to play mom and dad
Bustin' her ass to give her kids shit she never had
For my niggaz in the pen hopin' rhymes'll get 'em signed
So when released, they can say bye to a life of crime
For every mother that held a son in the street bleedin'
Cryin' a song of sorrow to dark and deep for speakin'
Just a moment outside the day to day struggle
To let the ones we really care about know that we love 'em
__SEPERATE__
Can we please have a moment of silence?
That's for my niggaz doin' years in confinement
And for my soldiers who passed over, no longer living
That couldn't run whenever the reaper came to get 'em
Can we please pour out some liquor?
Symobolizin', let's take in time to consider that
Though our thugs ain't here, the love is here
And we gon' rep 'til slugs kill us here
This for my dawgs stuck in the struggle tryin' to gain
Smokin' trauma, sniffin' Ra while sellin' cocaine
Trapped in the game, not knowin' how to stop and get by
To live it alive, so instead they live it to die
Can we please have a moment of peace?
For every G that fell for his flag in the streets
Bloodin' and thuggin', folkin' and lokin'
Crypin' and creepin', Latin and kingin'
Or just for poor righteous teachin'
As days goes and nights fall
For the rest of our life we'll miss y'all
And even though life must go on, we'll still mourn
While wishin' y'all were home
Yeah, and can we have another moment of silence?
For brothers who died from black-on-black violence
From here to the Dark Continent were rebels sell diamonds
To clients allover the world, got little Black girls dyin'
And can we please pour some more liquors?
For Will, Bokeem, Bar, Pappy -- my niggaz
Here's another Warrior Song from Nasty and Quan
It's to him I pass the baton to carry this on
Street's Disciple, salute to those who's gone with bullets
And I promise through rhymin' Quan gon' rep his life to the fullest
And can we please have a moment of truth?
For soldiers and troops away with helmets and boots
And families back home who pray they make it home safe
Hopin' that they don't get hit with a stray or missiles
This is just a moment to let you all know that we miss you
Mommy I'm still here, wishin' I was there with you
Let's take 'em home
And can we please have a moment to mourn?
For Pac, Biggie and Pun 'cause through us they live on
Jam Master Jay, Freaky Ty and Alliyah
Big L and Left Eye, when we die we wish to see ya...
Photographs of lost memories,
On the block with shit and Hennessey,
Pictures of us in mock neck shirts,
Valentine nail 'n brown bags
Brothers like to brag bout their cousins
That are locked in the system,
we all for victims, we all called Christians
The Islamic faith, restore all our faith
Barb wire torn, all brick wall but we all can't escape
__SEPERATE__
To the kids in the p.j.'s 
ghetto children i know it ain't easy
ya'll wanting millions 
sunshine turns to rain
its ghetto pain
when a one time raise 
sometimes the young is slain
To the kids in the p.j.'s black babies
brought up in this world where it's wild and crazy child of the Nile
future lifestyle looks hazey
dreams to drive a Mercedes
with a pile of ladies
Third grade singing star spangled banner
using proper manners 
learnt to handle anger animal behavior
later on my block rocking with my jocks on
eating Bon Ton chesse popcorn 
humming a KISS rock song
socks long to my knees 
summer breeze running through the leaves playing freeze tag
can I stay out please dad 
can I hang out with my little gang out
hearing shots rang out 
heard my moms call my name out
come upstairs run up stairs
take a bath shit stained underwear
wipe yourself with paper bad
little ass in my bed at 8:30 wash my plate
ate dinner up late
gazing at the wall praying basketball 
was my future for this young one 
hooping in the sun
proud to be where I come from 
later shooting guns fantasizing 
fascinated by gold rope chains
looking back at my hood days
but things aint changed
In my hood niggaz smoke wood 
nothing is good 
look at my eys and see what I could
living my life and feel what I felt
the hand that I was dealt 
drama that my uncle Shabazz had
I was a little lad
niggaz shooting through my Grams window shattering glass 
had the chicken pox 
on that toy horse that rocks 
my moms grabbed me down to safety
everybody in the crib was going crazy
that was in the 80's
and now im 17
money cash dreams
niggaz be slave 
I be brave spit like A.K.'s and S.K.'s
close range niggaz see brains
Millenium Thugs the name
but now it's slash cocaine
blast niggaz in vaine
satch yo' chain
cherrish the life 
my niggaz got a fetish for ice
turn out the lights
I bust so I could spar up the night
uniting the pipes 
Queensbridge niggaz is sheist
need no price body yall dudes on spite
who knew I would of spazzed out 
little Nayshawn owner of the crack house
get my papes on 
tired of 'friderators all the steaks gone
Now picture this shit 
with six Aunts five Uncles
thugging a double apartment out
kids, cousins, and brothers
there I go in the pamper by the radiator
cursing eatin first
little nigga with a appetite that got worst
firs day of school ten man cliq
all i'm learning is how to extort shit
'cuz class i forefit
graduated on another level 
selling birds busting birds 
fuck with the herbs 
never we fuck up the herbs
make 'em pay like you
stick 'em up get down
since ten was taught to turn 'em around
rip they pockets out 
bust two the way they run
I ain't give a fuck that's how I was 
I was young
Horse was born as a brave child 
big for my size 
a bully to little guys
with chocolate miks and apple pies
the playground was mine
I stayed scarred up all the time 
from shopping carts flipping 
now we race to the finish line
hated playing cooties 'cuz that shit
wasn't fun all the honey's say i'm it 
then they little ass run
I was sweared to put a hickey on the ones
that I caught
I was a nasty little nigga I learned to hump before I walk
kept a sling shot on my side to shoot 
squirrles and cats
wanted to be Captain America with the
Shillinger hat I started getting older fell
more in love with the streets 
infactuated by the ropes and the shiny 
gold teeth I was to big to break dance
fuck spiining on my back
my role models now run numbers and sell
crack this project child blessed 
chasing ghetto success 
he needs a name for himself
to ge the same respect
__SEPERATE__
Picture us married, you and me; K-I-S-S-I-N-G 
I remember the first time, girl you and me; F-U-C-K-I-N-G
Girl picture us married, you and me; K-I-S-S-I-N-G 
I remember the first time, girl you and me; F-U-C-K-I-N-G
She was the modern Isis, honey thought she was priceless
Perfect definition what a wife is, I like this
Showed me how excitin life is
I used to hang around dudes that used ice picks
The sheistiest, put you on they heist list
How we met it must have been fate
First date, crushed grapes, we ate lobster and steak
She kept asking questions how the cash made how my rent's paid
How many guns I sprayed and huns I laid
She said she want to have a family raise kids someday
Like out in Beverly Hills she wanna live one day
I can get with that I drop you off home 
I call you hit me back
I wanna dig that and did I? I did that
Put it way up where her ribs at, her future kids had
You held out for two weeks, longer than these hoodrats
You precious more precious than lost treasure
Matter of fact I'm kinda hopin we can stay together
I see you dressed up in white face covered in vail
Do I hear wedding bells?  My dogs throwin rice
And it's the day that your father give you away
to a real man that gently put the ring on your hand 
Do we vow to stay faithful? Do more than try to
Now, look me in my eyes and say I do
Drivin off in the Rolls Royce just married on the plates
We can spend our honeymoon in the states
You can throw your friend the bouquet
Somethin in the back of my head say
For us two, maybe cuz I love you
Hug you squeeze you touch you tease you 
As long as we together it's heaven for me to please you
Won't stop til I tell you me to beautiful
Deeper and harder love layin new with you
Runnin my fingers through your hair it's like days can go by
while I'm wit you and I won't even care, word
She been with young dudes, old guys, Hindus, pa-pi's
Colombians who cut pies, but none of them can touch Nas
Thug ones to those soft as baby shit
She been with hoodlums and those who had crazy chips
Til one day she decided to flip
It was nuttin I can do about it, like she the boss and shit
Started talkin this divorcin shit
I gave her my half rib, half my crib, half my cake 
Half my car, half my kids?  Can't get that 
Tried to swing on the God, had to dip that
Yo, push her on the bed, lift her leg, had to rip that
All she wanted was rough sex, with her slick ass
Had to sit back, smoke a blunt and just look 
With her fine-ass body and a damn good cook
For some reason yo she had me stuck and I had her in my web too
You my queen God bless you
__SEPERATE__
Can't nobody love me like you do 
She was the modern Isis, honey thought she was priceless
Perfect definition what a wife is, I like this
Showed me how excitin life is
I used to hang around dudes that used ice picks
The sheistiest, put you on they heist list
How we met it must have been fate
First date, crushed grapes, we ate lobster and steak
She kept asking questions how the cash made how my rent's paid
How many guns I sprayed and huns I laid
She said she want to have a family raise kids someday
Like out in Beverly Hills she wanna live one day
I can get with that I drop you off home
I call you hit me back
I wanna dig that and did I? I did that
Put it way up where her ribs at, her future kids had
You held out for two weeks, longer than these hoodrats
You precious more precious than lost treasure
Matter of fact I'm kinda hopin we can stay together
Can't nobody love me like you do 
I see you dressed up in white face covered in vail
Do I hear wedding bells? My dogs throwin rice
And it's the day that your father give you away
to a real man that gently put the ring on your hand
Do we vow to stay faithful? Do more than try to
Now, look me in my eyes and say I do
Drivin off in the Rolls Royce just married on the plates
We can spend our honeymoon in the states
You can throw your friend the bouquet
Somethin in the back of my head say
For us two, maybe cuz I love you
Hug you squeeze you touch you tease you
As long as we together it's heaven for me to please you
Won't stop til I tell you me to beautiful
Deeper and harder love layin new with you
Runnin my fingers through your hair it's like days can go by
while I'm wit you and I won't even care, word
Can't nobody love me like you do 
She been with young dudes, old guys, Hindus, pa-pi's
Colombians who cut pies, but none of them can touch Nas
Thug ones to those soft as baby shit
She been with hoodlums and those who had crazy chips
Til one day she decided to flip
It was nuttin I can do about it, like she the boss and shit
Started talkin this divorcin shit
I gave her my half rib, half my crib, half my cake
Half my car, half my kids? Can't get that
Tried to swing on the God, had to dip that
Yo, push her on the bed, lift her leg, had to rip that
All she wanted was rough sex, with her slick ass
Had to sit back, smoke a blunt and just look
With her fine-ass body and a damn good cook
For some reason yo she had me stuck and I had her in my web too
You my queen God bless you
Can't nobody love me like you do
__SEPERATE__
Imagine Ghana like California with Sunset Boulevard 
Johannesburg would be Miami 
Somalia like New York 
With the most pretty light 
The nuffest pretty car 
Ever New Year the African Times Square lock-off 
Imagine Lagos like Las Vegas 
The Ballers dem a Ball 
Angola like Atlanta 
A pure plane take off 
Bush Gardens inna Mali 
Chicago inna Chad 
Magic Kingdom inna Egypt 
Philadelphia like Sudan 
The Congo like Colorado 
Fort Knox inna Gabon 
People living in Morocco like the state of Oregon 
Algeria warmer than Arizona bring your sun lotion 
Early morning class of Yoga on the beach in Senegal 
Ethiopia the capitol of fi di Congression 
A deh so I belong 
A deh di The King come from 
I can see us all in limos 
Jaguars and B'mos 
Riding on the King's Highway
Promised Land I picture Porsches 
Basquiat Portraits 
Pinky Rings realistic princesses 
Heiresses bunch a Kings and Queens 
Plus I picture fortunes for kids out in Port-Au-Prince 
Powerless they not allowed to fit 
But not about to slip 
Vision Promised Land with fashion like 
Madison Ave Manhattan 
Saks 5th Ave and 
Rodeo 
Relaxing popping labels 
Promise Land no fables 
This where the truth's told 
Use them two holes 
Above your nose 
To see the proof yo! 
Imagine a contraption that could take us back when 
The world was run by black men 
Back to the future 
Anything can happen 
If these are the last days 
And 100-food waves come crashing down 
I get some hash and pounds 
Pass around the bud then watch the flood 
Can't stop apocalypse 
My synopsis is catastrophic 
If satellites is causing earthquakes 
Will we survive it 
Honestly man it's the sign of the times 
And the times at hand 
There's alot of work to be done, O gosh 
In the Promised Land
__SEPERATE__
Uh, uh, uh, uh
Lord have mercy, Jesus Christ
He's just nice, he just slice like a ginsu
Look at the life that I been through
I'm the last real nigga alive, that's official
Y'all don't know about my Biggie wars
Who you thought 'Kick In The Door' was for?
But that's my heart, y'all still trippin of this Jigga shit
Real niggas listen up and I'mma tell you how the whole thing start
Off top I brung Queens up from hard times
Rockin at the Fever, streets was all mine
It was my version of the blues, droppin our schools
The crack epidemic had rap representin new rules
So I, got in em shoes, tried em wore them
Wasn't a perfect fit, so I couldn't sport em
Young murderers ride, I knew all them
Jungle got shot, Will died, we was warring
I wrote it in my album
I was 18 when Lake seen the Island
And Lord held me down and
My surroundings started changing
I had a baby, I was making my rounds with AZ
Niggas started noticing my flow and was open when
The Golden Child closed em in with more style than them older men
Puff tried to start a label, Prince Rakeem had formed Wu-Tang
Snoop and Dre had a new thang
So Puff drove his new Range through Queensbridge Projects
He let me drive it, before Ready to Die hit
BIG and I hit blunts performing at the Arc
Next thing you knew, BIG blew and all the balling starts
He had Kim and his crew, I found Fox, only niggas in New York with number 
one charts
BIG was ahead of his time, him and Raekwon my niggas
But dig it, they couldn't get along
That's when Ghostface said it on the Purple tape
Bad Boy biting Nas album cover way
BIG told me Rae was stealing my slang
And Rae told me out in Shaolin BIG would do the same thing
But I borrowed from both them niggas
Jigga started to flow like us, but hit with 'Ain't No Niggas'
Had much Versace swagger
BIG admired the Brooklyn knight and it took him in as Iceberg the rapper
Today don't know nothing, about this bullshit
There's more shit than wanting to be this King of New York shit
Rap became a version of Malcom and Martin
Rest In Peace Will, Queensbridge live on
There's some ghetto secrets I can't rhyme in this song
There's some missing pieces I had to leave out
I had lot trust for Steve Stoute
At some point till I got to know him
We old friends, but what's loyal?
Puff soaked Interscope offices
With champagne bottles on Steve, and Steve thought the drama is on me
Cause previously it would have been, against whoever
Friends forever
However, I learn, with some niggas it's all business
But I'm a street dude with morals
To diss niggas with Jigga too much, he used to say Jay wanted my spot
I laughed, stayed home, never hung a lot
A quiet man who used to be alone planning
Baby moms thought I was too quiet, couldn't stand it
She hit the streets, later on she hittin the sheets
With a rapper who wanted me on his songs, thinking he strong
I taught her how to watch for cars that might follow
Tauht her street shit that I know
Her weakness was shine yo
But that's her, I ain't mad baby, it made me stronger
Now I get my paper longer
Illmatic I was boss
It Was Written I flossed
One of the most creative LPs ever to hit stores
In the Firm I learned I am Nastradamus
QB's Finest, Oochie Wally, faced more problems
I gave it all up so I can chill at home with mama
She was getting old and sick so I stayed beside her
We had the best times, she asked would I make more songs
I told her not till I see her health get more strong
In the middle of that, Jay tried to sneak attack
Assasinate my character, degrade my hood
Cause in order for him to be the Don, Nas had to go
The Gam-B-I-N-O rules I understood
What you want, see, I already had
The Gift and The Curse? Fuck that shit, the first shall be last
I'm the man's man, a rapper's rapper
G-O-D S-O-N, they'll be none after
I was Scarface, Jay was Manolo
It hurt me when I had to kill him and his whole squad for dolo 
Uh, Uh, Uh
__SEPERATE__
These are last words of a hanging slave
How could I forget this
I rob you put you on my hit list
Under my nails are dirty look at the grime
My burnt lips from the roach clips
How can I shine
Being broker than a dope bitch
Powerful mind we brave men
I blow smoke and I'ma keep sayin
These are last words of a hanging slave
How can I forget this
I rob you put you on my hit list
Under my nails is dirty look at the grime
My burnt lips from the roach clips
How can I shine
Being broke and bag a dope bitch
Powerful minds we brave men
I'ma blow smoke and keep sayin
I wanna be more than that bullet that go through ya zone
Wanna be the lead that tear through ya skin and crack bones
Wanna be the heat you feel makin ya moan
Wanna be the hospital bed that you lay on
Wanna be the god you feel when you pray-on
It's Nashawn the type that get the hyper-con
I'm gonna kill something 
Rap cats be real frontin
Fuck shootin legs
Cock back put his brains on the pave
Nigga how bout that
Close range with the gadge get payed
First rapper to shoot off stage
Turn the front page the next day my life is like a book
A twenty four hour song without no hook
Millennium Thug computer chips up in my slug
Turn quarters when you turn quarters know who to plug
Thugs around me outside its grimmy outside
Better slide before you get bodied outside
 
These are last words of a hanging slave
How could I forget this
I rob you put you on my hit list
Under my nails are dirty look at the grime
My burnt lips from the roach clips
How can I shine
Being broke and bag a dope bitch
Powerful mind we brave men
I blow smoke and I'ma keep sayin
These are last words of a hanging slave
How could I forget this
I rob you put you on my hit list
Under my nails is dirty look at the grime
My burnt lips from the roach clips
How can I shine
Being broke and bag a dope bitch
Powerful minds we brave men
I blow smoke and keep sayin
I'ma prison cell six by nine
Livin hell stone wall metal bars for the gods in jail
My nickname the can, the slammer, the big house
I'm the place many fear cause there's no way out
I take the sun away put misery instead
When you wit me most folks consider you dead
I saw too many inmates fallin apart
Call for the guards to let them out at night when it's dark
Convicts think they alone but if they listen close
They can hear me groan touch the wall feel my pulse
All the pictures you put up is stuck to my skin
I hear ya prayers 
I make it hotter in the summer colder in the winter
If the court paroal ya then another con enters
No remorse for your tears I seen em too often
When you cry I make you feel alive inside a coffin
Watch you when you eat play with you mind when you sleep
Make you dream that you free then make you wake up to me
Face to face with a cage no matter your age
I can shatter you turn you into a savage in rage
Change ya life that's if you get a chance to get out
Cause only you and I know what sufferings about
Yo it's stunning when bed sheets become your woman
And I'm the one that gotcha weapons when the beef is comming
Maybe one day I'll open up my arms to release you
You'll always be my property nigga stay legal
__SEPERATE__
This one's for all the leaders
Leader
Lets all change the world
Change the world
This one's for all the leaders
Leader
Lets all change the world
Change the world
Yeah!
Got out the 600
Blunted
Chicks hunt him
Neighborhood know he comin'
Jakes hate him
Snakes could not violate him
Pimps memorize his lines-verbatim
He reps N.Y. yo
Gives C-notes to winos
Not church
It's how he tithe though
He walks the tenement
Sleeps at his super fly condo
My kinda nigga
My Icon, my Idol
No certificate
For this misfit who handle business
The odds stacked against him
He fights back mackin Benzes
Never puts cash or ass
Before friendship
He laughs last?
As some die young
He is still existing
Somehow he got around the pitfalls of the system
When he walks we watch
When he talks we listen
Leaders
This one's for all the leaders
Leader
Lets all change the world
Change the world
This one's for all the leaders
Leader
Lets all change the world
Change the world
Who do I follow?
Who do I copy?
Look in to the mirror
And it's you I see look at me
Everything new
Like it fresh from the factory
Everything you do?
It impact me
Your lifestyle attract me
Parents try distract me
When I grow up
I want to be like you exactly
And as soon as I get over this acne
There's no way anybody coulda stop me
Me gravitate toward the aura
And all the mannerism
The sending out of orders
And man start moving busy
The locking of the corners?
The streets and all the buildings
Mi love you like a father
Mi ready and mi willing
Anything what you a talk
Is law in my dominion
And mi have similar thoughts
I share the same opinions
Mi have it say you smart
With mi best interest at heart
I'm following your path
Yow mine whe you a walk
This one's for all the leaders
Leader
Lets all change the world
Change the world
This one's for all the leaders
Leader
Lets all change the world
Change the world
They appeal to the conscious
The Paramount
The Cesar, the monsters
The grandiose, the matters
The hell on earth pompous
Ellsworth Bumpy Johnsons
The Harlemites the Garveyites
Black as the credit card we swipe
Poppin' Dom tonight
For all of mine
I can see myself back at the Autobahn
Malcolm on the podium
Shells drop to linoleum
Swipe those
Place 'em on display at the Smithsonian
Next to only gems
That were left behind
By holy men
Infectious
Charisma of those who gave us direction
The anti-sexes
Resistance against oppression
Progressive thinking
Ghetto speakers
Protestors against the colored
Only section to the Jena 6 and
The Frost Nixon
The contradiction
The cross the crucifixion
The loss we took for sinning
On Esau's back inscription
That it was written
That nothing is coincidence'n
They took our leaders and they lynched them
This one's for all the leaders
Leader
Lets all change the world
Change the world
This one's for all the leaders
Leader
Lets all change the world
Change the world
Change the world, change the world
Change the world
Change the world, change the world
You change the world
__SEPERATE__
:]
La-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la..
Mr. International
The man centerfold women loathe
Voice bump out the Bose in a tinted Rolls
Craftiness, take a stab at it
Don't ask if Nasty's back at it
I don't run out of magic
Popular, box-cutter flow
Time is money; the watch cost dough
Shaking the dice, fragrances from some beautiful ladies
The lights, the ambiance, yeah, this is the life
The money, hotties on each arm--It's on
I party like a rap star, baby the facts are
The third time's a charm
So meet me by the Eiffel Tour
Bring a bottle of Dom
I am here 
This is the place 
The atmosphere of espionage at expensive tape
And each one that I see is an unfamiliar face
So I guess I'll just cut straight through the chase
And before I could say the name of whom I came to see
Someone suspicion then came to me
I'm so close and I've come so far
A glass of red wine sits from the women at the end of the bar
I love to talk to you - but I don't have the time
She looks like the prettiest part of a perfect crime
Ohh if I could I could I'd put a picket fence around a wild flower
But darling I have "Less Than an Hour"
Hmmmm... Ohhhh... Funny how time flies when you're having fun
 Yeah, let' em know) But I got to do what must be done
You on a winning streak
You survived the killer streets
Now you at the crap table, where the real villains meet
Number seven might get you to Heaven
You break the bank, just might make you a legend
It's after eleven, you playing against a poker face
Genie eyes, light green, sipping on Bellini's
You play your cards right, she'll let you touch
She'll be a devil in disguise, lady incubus
Better know who to trust
She might roll with thugs who roll bodies up in Asian rugs
I'ma rush up and move on 'em, put the uz' on 'em
The crews do something new, inform me
Ohhh... time will wait baby
Ew-ohhh... ewwwwwwwww... hmmmmm...
I'm in the pursuit of my own personal power
And I only have an hour
__SEPERATE__
Uh, yea, it's like that 
They wanna know how nigga do it, youknawhati'masayin
I had a nigga come up to me and ask me and shit
Why I ain't got that, youknawhati'msayin
Fuck nigga get on your job, nigga let your nuts hang beeitch
Check it out though
These well, theeeeeese
41st side Lake Entertainment
Oh yea, if you come to QB you gonna get...
Yo, foes decompose in their coffins, hoes creepin with bosses
No sleep in my fortress break day thinkin of losses
Taxes and IRS government gangstas
But I'm a scientist in love with big president faces
My residence changes from ghetto to acres
Avoidin jealousy snake shit
Can't afford another felony lake bent drivin them Porsche
Niggaz sayin Nas came through Wit a flyin saucers 
With some strange shoes on the tirin flossin
So now they know wanna offer 'em killin stick 'em and cost 'em
Catch him slippin, trippin get 'em for all his fortune
Sup with this Nas hatred, y'all can suck my dick
Got these niggaz wives naked makin them fuck my fist
My mystique have the world froze
My physique got me dressed up in shell toes
In ganga leaf, I inhale slow
I'm from out of town capsule some kind of portal
Spittin these rhyme at you like a martyr
Lay low, lay low 
Cuz all y'all niggaz won't 
If you come to QB you goin to get murdered 
You goin to get murdered 
You going to get murdered 
If you come to QB you goin to get murdered
Sayin old dudes jewel me, now salute me
I've grew more than they ever though I would be
Havin no pops to mourn me, just show me
God didn't plan for another man to control me
You know me from bustin my gun blood
Even up in north my cell smell like Christian Dior
Before I lost my case I had to gain mastered
Been had heart now my papers startin to match it
I stack til they capture me and kept a bottle of half-a-G
And sold 20's while I rap to beast
My wifey beef over my robberies
But they put my man in the "L" still on the armory
Loyal to the heritage, though I put 7 in it
Dudes snaked me, word to Spanky, I never snitch
I put a bullet in your face 'fore I go to Jake
Rule number 1 out here, don't fuck with Lake
Lay low, lay low 
Cuz all y'all niggaz won't 
If you come to QB your goin to get murdered
Your goin to get chopped up,  boxed up 
Your goin to get murdered 
If you come to QB your goin to get...
Yo, yo, yo 
Our guns are haunted with the ghost of body
Smoke 'em like we suppose to
Your whole crew come to face to face with shotty
Told you!, Bravehearted we appear when it's on
Light up your block like its day time y'all niggaz be gone
So many niggaz that's be pursuin Nas when they spot me
They be jumpin out of movin cars and landin on my Tims
I tell 'em be careful don't damage the skin
Amateurs cram around wit the hopes to get glance at the end
Aiyo most of my friends have ulterior motives
I'm wise cuz I realize that sounds is golden
Mourned shorty from cat shacky who wrote to me
Livin through them back then was givin hope to me
I control many, being a flossiest
Most notorious, Queensbridge extortionist
Love my hood no question, I'm gonna rep it
But I'm not just a QB tenant, I'm the president
__SEPERATE__
Yeah, check check, testing
It's clear out there? Yeah
It's like I'm hang gliding over the hood, ha
Never worry 
Check, let there be light
No gang banging in New York tonight
Just murals of Biggie Smalls, bigger then life
Turn up the kid mic cuz ya'll ain't listening right
What's all this talk that Nas got bought?
I'd rather outline my body in white chalk
Ain't nobody been where I been, they at a stand still
This is all overseen by my man Will
As I walk through the shadow of death
I know that I ain't got much time left
And they don't really wanna see the good in me
Ain't satisfied until they see the fool in me
 I know my business, so my sins great
 I thank the hood for all the love they gave
 Forgive 'em all, they did they best to hate
Oh, let there be light
This ain't the glorified, just painting the street picture
There's no God in sir Bibles, just blunt and switches
Gillettes cut pain in kitchen
Now every rapper wanna claim he hang with Kenneth "Supreme" Griffith
It's like the same difference cept when niggaz get arraigned
They don't want the same sentence, niggaz get to snitchin
If I could reverse the monsters and turn forward the razas
And bring back the niggaz who was livest
Old hustlers, reminscing on better days
They home, doing nothing, might as well be in a cage
Hating on young brothers, one foot in the grave
They used to love us till we found our own way thru the maze
New York, set trippin and flaggin
Got the West Coast laughing, now Esco's asking
What happened? My homegirl from upper Manhattan
She remembers the quarters that's Latin, alotta rat-a-tat-tatting
The son of the audio cassette era, tech wearer
Bullets and begets, Binzbo's speaker terror
Till man I get mine till I'm dead, so I can drive sumpthin red
Like that horse standing on it's hind legs
Since Arnold and Willis in they bunk beds
I wanted bread like Wonder, not manned-a-wanno like the parent of Lionel
Nas is the Ghetto American Idol
No matter what you do you're never getting my title
I can't sound smart cuz ya'll'll run away
They say I ain't hungry no more and I don't talk about 'ye
Like there's no other way for a ex-hustler
Cake ya, the x-ray splitter to touch ya, I beg to differ
When you're four years into the game, we can have a conversation
Eight years in the game, I invite ya on vacation
Ten years in the game, after I've enjoyed my fame
Only then I let ya pick my brain, niggaz
]
 Right about now  
  I don't even deal with all that garbage
 We getting real right, ya know?
  That is Tre Williams ladies and gentlemen
   
Focus on good things man, good times, Heh-heh, alright
]
Oh let it be, let it be, yeah
Let it be, let it be
__SEPERATE__
Yo ill will, ruff ryders
what what, sraight like that
You a killer or a hustler, dealer or customer
Gangsta or buster, youngster or old nigga
A weed head, a coke sniffer
You rich or a broke nigga
Know you all relate to this shit that i wrote niggas
Lots of my mans trapped up in a max
Penatentary, sending me letters i answer back
That eventually, we all be bentley'ed out
Throwing campaigns, fuck it I'm running for White House
My niggas control Senate, pipe seats jeeps tinted
Mad Lewinsky chicks, some kinky shit
Did dirt now I knew it would come back one day
So I'm on point, scrap, prepare for gunplay
Stared at one face, thought it was beef he looked familiar
Ready to blast ,nigga gave me daps said I feel ya
Can't believe how my life changed
From the hood, the first time in my life I can say i did the right thing
Life is what you make it nigga, I'ma make it
No matter what it takes my nigga, we gonna take it
uh, uh, uh, uh, uh
Everyday shit, around the way shit got me stressed 
So i keep on the vest in case a nigga wanna  test 
I got no time for games cause I'm all grown up
You wanna joke nigga? laugh when you get blown up 
See how funny it is when your kids aint got no father
Cause you played it sweet now you floating in the harbor 
Shit is hectic so respect it for your health 
Didn't think it was right, you should've checked it yourself 
Life is too short to get caught up in some dumb shit
Wake up one day, 40 years old on some bumb shit
Time flew by, you was too fly to see the light
Everyday it's getting darker then comes the night
Now what?  realize that you ain't got shit 
Not long ago you was the man on some hot shit
So just peep the flow yo, cause you already in this
Make sure your shit is right kid and handle your business 
Make history before you go
Fuck the misery, you po we gettin doe
Except the ?dollars? other reasons why I'm living yo 
Time is viable
Low and behold the young, black, and powerful
Got to eat yo, everyday my daughters feet grow
You wack and cheap with the doe, my heat could blow
Payin doctors when I'm born, a preacher when I'm buried
That's why cash is needed for my kids to inherit
Gotta pay just for living, tax life is a b'ness 
If you catch a bad deal, watch your life deminish
Deals made by God and the Devil, and we in it
Pawns in the game, can't complain or say shit
Just strap up and hold on, hope for the best
prepare for the worse, no fears no nothing on earth
No tears if I'm dumped in a hearse, I won't be the first
Nor the last nigga, let's get this cash nigga
__SEPERATE__
Aiyyo, wassup wassup let's keep it real son
Count this money, yaknowhatI'msayin?
 Yea yea
 Aiyyo, put the Grant's over there in the safe yaknowhatI'msayin?
 Yea yea
Cause we spendin these Jackson's
The Washington's go to wifey, you know how that go
I'm sayin, that's what this is all about right?
Clothes, bankrolls, and hoes yaknowhatI'msayin?
Yo then what man, what? 
Visualizin the realism of life and actuality
Fuck who's the baddest a person's status depends on salary
And my mentality is, money orientated
I'm destined to live the dream for all my peeps who never made it
Cause yeah, we were beginners in the hood as five percenters
But somethin must of got in us cause all of us turned to sinners
Now some, restin in peace and some are sittin in San Quentin
Others such as myself are tryin to carry on tradition
Keepin this schwepervesent street ghetto essence inside us
Cause it provides us with the proper insight to guide us
Even though, we know somehow we all gotta go
But as long as we leavin thievin we'll be leavin with some kind of dough
So, and to that day we expire and turn to vapors
Me and my capers'll be somewhere stackin plenty papers
Keepin it real, packin steel, gettin high -
Cause life's a bitch and then you die
Life's a bitch and then you die; that's why we get high
Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die; that's why we puff lye
Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die; that's why we get high
Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die; that's why we puff lye
Cause you never know when you're gonna go
Life's a bitch and then you die
I woke up early on my born day, I'm twenty years of blessing
The essence of adolescent leaves my body now I'm fresh in
My physical frame is celebrated cause I made it
One quarter through life some God-ly like thing created
Got rhymes 365 days annual plus some
Load up the mic and bust one, cuss while I puffs from
My skull cause it's pain in my brain vein money maintain
Don't go against the grain simple and plain
When I was young at this I used to do my thing hard
Robbin foreigners take they wallets they jewels and rip they green cards
Dipped to the projects flashin my quick cash
And got my first piece of ass smokin blunts with hash
Now it's all about cash in abundance, niggaz I used to run with
Is rich or doin years in the hundreds
I switched my motto - instead of sayin fuck tomorrow
That buck that bought a bottle could've struck the lotto
Once I stood on the block, loose cracks produce stacks
I cooked up and cut small pieces to get my loot back
Time is Illmatic keep static like wool fabric
Pack a four-matic that crack your whole cabbage
__SEPERATE__
Visualizin the realism of life and actuality
Fuck who's the baddest a person's status depends on salary
And my mentality is, money orientated
I'm destined to live the dream for all my peeps who never made it
cause yeah, we were beginners in the hood as five percenters
But somethin must of got in us cause all of us turned to sinners
Now some, restin in peace and some are sittin in San Quentin
Others such as myself are tryin to carry on tradition
Keepin the schwepervesence street ghetto essence inside us
Cause it provides us with the proper insight to guide us
Even though, we know somehow we all gotta go
but as long as we leavin thievin we'll be leavin with some kind of dough
so, and to that day we expire and turn to vapors
me and my capers-ll be somewhere stackin plenty papers
Keepin it real, packin steel, gettin high
Cause life's a bitch and then you die
Life's a bitch and then you die; that's why we get high
Cause you never know when you're gonna go 
Life's a bitch and then you die; that's why we puff lye
Cause you never know when you're gonna go 
Life's a bitch and then you die; that's why we get high
Cause you never know when you're gonna go 
Life's a bitch and then you die; that's why we puff lye.....
"Time's is Illmatic" 
"Destined to live the dream for all my peeps who never made it" 
"You gotta get the ground beneath your feet, partner
Get the wind behind your back
Go out in a blaze of glory if you've got to
Otherwise you ain't shit
You might as well be dead your damn self, y'all"
I woke up early on my born day, I'm twenty years of blessing
The essence of adolescent leaves my body now I'm fresh in
My physical frame is celebrated cause I made it
One quarter through life some God-ly like thing created
Got rhymes 365 days annual plus some
Load up the mic and bust one, cuss while I puffs from
my skull cause it's pain in my brain vein money maintain
Don't go against the grain simple and plain
When I was young at this I used to do my thing hard
Robbin' foreigners take they wallets they jewels and rip they green cards
Dipped to the projects flashin my quick cash
and got my first piece of ass smokin blunts with hash
Now I think about cash in abundance, niggaz I used to run with
is rich or doin years in the hundreds
I switched my motto -- instead of sayin fuck tomorrow
That buck that bought a bottle could've struck the lotto
Once I stood on the block, loose cracks produce stacks
I cooked up and cut small pieces to get my loot back
Time's is Illmatic keep static like wool fabric
Pack a four-matic that crack your whole cabbage
Yeah, you know the flavor
Nas & AZ on the remix joint
This is another explosion from the Arsenal
__SEPERATE__
To my niggaz.. huh..
We all we got..
Let's hold it down though, y'know?
However it's gon' go down
This what we gotta deal with, y'know?
Yo..
It's the life we chose, where friends become foes
and the dough'll get you killed quicker than you know
This is the life we chose, bring fake snakes and hoes
and the only way out, is death or goin broke
This the life we chose, ain't too many happy endings
That's why there ain't too many happy niggaz in it
And I'll admit it, this life is fucked up but yo..
 this life is the only life I know 
Uhh, uhh, uhh
Gold bathtubs, makin love to my Queen
Get my back rubbed, Chardonnay, rollin up green
Statues, marble floors, rare paintings on my wall
My lifestyle's like the Forbes Magazine
Closets, full of rockets and submachines
Take this nigga out the projects, and his thug team
Yo we cruise past street lights, ill rides
Mr. Child both coasts with the most loud toast
Calicos roast y'all folks, keep y'all dyin
Cause it's hard to fuck around when we dealin with science
My enemies got money, so y'all should watch how I play it
They never know we enemies until they hear me say it
Til they kid's on the phone sayin, "Please daddy pay it"
Til they brain's on the floor, mixed on the pavement
High-class elegance, you respect or you hiss
You go against you'd rather piss on an electrical fence
It's strategic, how these niggaz want you to think
You'd be surprised, who'd be the one to put you to sleep
Why you stink?  Yo these streets don't allow you to blink
You get showered by lead, comin out with your mink
Bow ties and tuxedos, bust Eagles
Dump drugs and acid, then they rush with the Rico
It's hard fuckin with niggaz you hope you can trust
You a fool if your main bitch is easy to fuck
And you've got money - is these hoes greedy or what?
Shit is devious, ex-friends wantin you stuck
Uhh, what's love when you don't give your man enough dough?
He wanna stick you
What's love, you got beef?
Nobody rollin wit you
What's love, you locked up, and your family don't care
Is love a four-letter word, that deceives the air?
What's real, when you know your man's girl is a hoe
And you don't even let him know, cause you fucked her befo'
What's real, when you talk behind a man's back
then you see him and give him dap, now explain that?
What's trust, when they seperate your case
When you at your court date, your co-de', can't look in your face
What's trust, when you keep your wife away from your man?
And he never crossed you, but you claimin he's fam'?
What's trust, when you get bust, your niggaz don't retaliate?
They blaze purple haze with em the next day?
God forbid one of my niggaz get hit, I'ma go haywire
Won't hesitate, I'ma spray fire
But everybody's different, you won't know how you react
til you in that position, and that's an actual fact
The hearts of men change as time goes on, who's wrong?
You was hungry when you stuck Duke, he came back to buck you
Who's wrong?  Foul all your life, now you 90
On your deathbed you regret bein grimy
What's lust, a bust nut?  What's a thug?
A ghetto child raised around drugs, til he's old enough to bust slugs?
Then what's jail, to rehabilitate, or to make a nigga worse
when he come home to catch another case?
Life's about decisions, you choose it, you gotta live it
You did it, heaven or hell or prison
Who knows when your clock'll stop tickin, get your weight up
Save up before it's over neighbor, I told ya
You gettin older player, look at those who gave up
__SEPERATE__
Ay yeah, what's happenin mommy? How you doin baby?
Oh you lookin kinda good and everything, I see you with them stilettos on baby
Ay check this out, you ain't got time to talk to me?
Ay let me put the bug in your ear baby
Want you turnin them hoe shoes into some flows shoes, you dig?
Yeah, check this out, this Universe Finest, your Royal Highness
You know what baby? I can do a whole lot of thangs for you
Guess why, cause I'm a motherfuckin pimp
 Hustlin and grindin babe
 Stayin on that paper chase
In this life there's pimps and hoes
Tell me which one are you, you a nigga
 Hustlin and grindin babe
 Stayin on that paper chase
In this life there's pimps and hoes
Tell me which one are you
The good man in me say "Get money and stay on the path"
But the pimp shit in me say "Yo, keep lookin for ass"
But my daughter gave me a gift, somethin to hold
A little city in water, when you shake it, it snow
I told her never let a sucker nigga take off her clothes
Better wait till you grown, when he love you, you'll know
Everybody's got a dream, a hopeful wish to own a six times two
Cylinder whip, a fantasy, a bone to pick
With friends to get against who I don't know
Someone who said you won't blow, you won't eat, you won't cake
They mistake blamin me for they failures, I'm fresh, gettin tailored
Single breasted, a lip brush, it's senseless, some pimp shit
A woman hates a man and stays with him for many years
Tell him she loves him and be jealous of him
Now lame is how the ghetto judge him, cause he still with her
She'll take his cash and give it to some other real nigga
Ay pimpin been goin on man for eons and eons man since the beginnin of time
You know me, the only thing I need to do is get on the grind and get mine
So the only thing I gotta tell you man is you know, do what you gotta do man
Bring my money back, get on that track and get on your back
I heard 'em say the NBA's a bunch of million-dollar slaves
A portea wasn't real back in the days, the point I make is
Jerry owns the Lakers, his yearly takings
Let's just say more than collectively all of his players
That's business, not really pimp shit
Maybe a titbit similar to when we rappers make big hits
and not own the masters, that's the deal
By the way, portea helps all the Denzels excel
He kept it more than real, but Hollywood can turn a girl out
I knew a girl bout, 5'9", so fine, she could result grind
She was sleek, sheek, with a classic mouth
Movie directors always fucked her on the casting couch
She came out with a blockbuster, can't knock a hustler
She not a hooker, she focused, a hopeless soul on a lonely road
I showed her all my stones and gold
I said "Bitch, life is cold, you need to roll with a nigga"
__SEPERATE__
I shot the motherfucker back
 Right out the ass son
 For niggaz don't know how to act
 What the deal son
 I shot the motherfucker back
 No doubt son
 For niggaz don't know how to act
Yo NYC, U-N-I-verse, se-riously
Havoc and P, Queens niggaz so it seem to be
Monopolize, strategies of war, exercise, mega
Got word back from Noreaga
The D.A. got video cassette taper
The God with the God-U-Now, pullin a caper
Runnin up in the spot, mask and duct taped up
Pig tied they motherfuckin wrists to they ankles
I been through, crime shit my niggaz in-to
Peep the issue situation like this, we stickin him too
JFK on our way to L.A.
Got links with big cats down to Santa Barbre 
My crew do it the Mobb way, everyday
Crime pay, who wanted gunplay?  Drill me
Niggaz kill me, thrillin me, you wanna look?
Peep the nine milli, now undress, you know the drill-y
Niggaz suspect, weak links pose threats, I have yet
to met challenger who go against my set
Gem stars razor sharp like Gilette, shavin closely on
any character approach me
I let the streets get the best of me, infamy, my destiny
While cat burg-lars tryin to sneak peep the recipe
Inside my rap cookbook, paragraphs is gourmet
You pay about $5,000 a plate
No doubt kid, I hit them niggaz like a bid
The prosecutor, runnin up in your crib
Do your dirt, I do my dirt all by my lonely
It's only me, and the gat that's holdin me
We got it locked beyond measure, the click's under pressure
Extort you for your treasure smack you with the undresser
Represent your click, go ahead, get that ass whipped
Wannabe thug, get smacked for back talkin
QB represent fuck that, it can happen
While you rappin, I'm busy tryin to sneak the gat in
Could tear men, cut the party while you jammin
We think smarter, reach harder, got the 44
Bodyguard of somethin you don't want a part of
If I was you, then I would do what I have to 
But you ain't me, you hesitated so I clapped you
Then stepped off casually, naturally me
Niggaz thinkin shit sweet, I carry big heat
Wavy hair chipped teeth, up in this bitch deep
Queens murder clicks meet, yellow tapes on black gates 
Mediterranean, projects is like Kuwait
I escape into zones, that's irregular
Why debate on a phone, I'm solar cellular
Escobar 600, you just a crumb inside a world
where the rich run it, curriculum of a mathologist
Deep throats, they try to swallow this
Anthropologists, dynasties of great knowledgists
I preserve in my dome, niggaz mics is full of silicone
Spot's blown, guerilla ice on this killer's life
I put my word on it
Now you can sleep on or rock a swerve on it
Nas is menage a trois' on Mount Aire lodges
We like a smooth fam', but rougher than how DeBarge is
Catchin charges, of marksmen, livin heartless
Grab a cartridge, cock my shit on some Mobb shit
We mobbin, puttin niggaz in mausoleums
From Queens cross the Throsnic, heads bop, I see 'em
from queens cross to throgsneck heads nod
]
For niggaz don't know how to act
To all my niggaz on the block slangin crack
Rest in peace to my niggaz layin on they back
To all the niggaz who bust gats 
 If youse a live nigga
__SEPERATE__
Live now niggaz, there's no promise of a second time around, put it down
We'll just live now, there's no reason why you shouldn't, everything is up to you
All you gotta do is just, live now, we spending
Not under the ground yet, we enjoying every second yo
Live now, don't forget to bro, yeah
cause I promise you you'll regret it bro
Picture my last days will be so grim
My daughter at my bedside, respirator in me
Eyes dilated, looking skinny, trying to smile, trying to say something
Whole room will quiet down just to hear my last words
Tears fall down my facial, why fear anything, it's now too late to
I'm dreaming of a time I was silked out at the peak of my career
But I always choked out, leaving mad money on the table at crazy amounts
I would hit the scene for a second and bounce
Admit I did live a little bit, sweet pickle dick
Freaks licked on it, lips I dripped on it
Sex, I shot pearl necklaces on necks and tits
Traveled half the world, wish I traveled the rest of it
From QB to Mecca kid, so if you knew me
You'd be proud to say I left you with enough memories to resurrect me with
So live now nigga
It's been a long time since you came through to see ya sis
You know I love you, I've been a fan since Genesis
Gotta respect you 'cause you never tied to smash
Since we met a while back, and your style was mack
Now I see that you a man after all you been through
A stand-up dude, held me down after Sekou
Need more brothers like you in the hood, would have wifed you if I could
But the white cells in my blood were no good
Said I had it ten years, but I was just a carrier
I thought, "Me a victim?", could never be my character
It's ill Se' passed the way he did, didn't know how to tell him
Just happy it didn't get in our kid
But all the things I did was the flyest, experiences were priceless
Remember days of diamond cuts
Nugget rings, clubs in Queens, Jetta cars
Used to love them things, Barbados, Belize
I stayed over seas, shopping sprees, credit cards
Pockets of Gs, left the hood, phattest cribs
To platinum from silver, came back, bitches calling me the black Liz Taylor
Imagine that, Rob me? My nigga would kill ya, they knew the rules
All the planes I flew, niggaz I ran through
Lot of unprotected sex, don't know where it came from
Grimy niggaz, rich niggaz, damn it ain't a game son
From the Cayman Islands to the Virgin Islands
Gucci suitcases , a chic did it, eff the screw faces
Critics and fans, they need to get a life
You doin' the right thing, settle down, get a wife now
I grew with you so you know you make me proud
And most of all you gotta live now
Live now nigga ain't no promise of a second time around, put it down, would you
We'll just live now, there's no reason why you shouldn't, everything is up to you
All you gotta do is just, live now, keep spending
Not under the ground yet, keep enjoying every minute yo
Gotta live it up to the limit yo
cause I promise you you'll regret it bro
Son, come close, lemme talk to you
I got music, put it out to the world, let 'em hear it
Look out for little me, one
__SEPERATE__
42nd street terminal
Yo, yo, I live it and I speak it
My religion is reefer
Big money in most, an uninhibited freak to sleep with
My visions are realistic, nothing’s figurative
I can wish it into existence, God want this nigga to live
Blunt big as a dread, I get high and forget who bled
Who we stomp-kicked in the head and who we left for dead
Who are you niggas? Why argue niggas?
The truth is the truth, I really put my scars on niggas
They wait a lifetime, they tell they hoes, “Nas did this”
Pointin’ to they scars like, “Right here, baby, really Nas did this”
Like a badge of honor, not braggin’ I’m just honest
War stories we tell them, nothin’s realer than karma
Sip prohibition liquor, prohibition whiskey
Rap Jack Demsey, Matt Black Bentley, pimply
Shatterin’ your silence, pass around the chalice
Due to my Indian ancestry at the weed dispensery
Official kings and gents is who I mix and mingle with
Fuck your ice, I rock rubies, amethyst
I fuck your wife cause she a groupie, scandalous
This for my bad hood bitches, ghetto glamorous
Yo, what we talkin’ ’bout niggas?
What we talkin’ ’bout niggas?
This is Nas, what, Nas
What, Nasty, what, recollect,
At seventeen I made seventeen thousand livin’ in public housin’
Integrity in tact, reppin’ hard
They askin’ how he disappear and reappear back on top
Sayin’, “Nas must have naked pictures of God or somethin’”
To keep winnin’ is my way like Francis
As long as I’m breathin’, I’ll take chances
A soldier comin’ home, twenty years old with no legs
Sayin’ there’s no sense to cry and complain, just go ‘head
So much to write and say, yo I don’t know where to start
So I’ll begin with the basics and flow from the heart
I know you think my life is good cause my diamond piece
But my life been good since I started finding peace
I shouldn’t even be smilin’, I should be angry and depressed
I been rich longer than I been broke, I confess
I started out broke, got rich, lost paper then made it back
Like Trump bein’ up down up, play with cash
My nigga’s like a locomotive
Nas, we push it, mush ‘em
Queensbridge to Bushwick
Harlem, Bronx, all that
You ain’t even supposed to be out here
You know where you at?
At night, New York, eat a slice too hot
Use my tongue to tear the skin hangin’ from the roof of my mouth
Shit was Falicimo, melted pot, city sweltering hot
Staggerin’ drunker than those cops that 2pac shot
I was a crook by the train with that iron thing, concealed
Reachin’, soon as I heard them iron wheels screechin’
When it came to a halt whoever walked off got caught
Toker man safe behind a locked door for sure
Minor theif shit, minor league shit, beastin’
Lookin’ for the young, but now we older chiefin’
In my truck, play The Greatest Adventures of Slick Rick
Buggin’ on how his imagination was so sick
It’s ghetto beef, sinister niggas snicker through yellow teeth
Alchohol agin’ my niggas faster than felonies
How dare I? Must be, somethin’ in the air that corrupts me
Look at my upkeep, owned and sublease
I’m here y’all
This for my trapped in the 90′s niggas
For my trapped in the 90′s niggas
Ha, for y’all niggas
__SEPERATE__
I ain't mad at you, young king, this unsung song is haunting
Along comes a one son called a offspring
The Earth spins, my old herb grin, sung a church hymn
She birthed in September, took my first wind, again, the Earth spins
I jumped in my first Benz, fled out, let out
Screams got in the game and took bread out
The nerve of these niggas, weak flow, yo Cole let's murder this sequel
Freedom or jail from Fayetteville to QB though
Cause back when I was young there was massive niggas
But I passed them niggas, just bein' nasty nigga
Military had fatigue pants saggin', Henny'd up
Execs askin' will he live to see his own release date happen
Straight off the corner with the armor, armor and hammer
But I had appeal, I was a charmer
Yet still bein' my momma's son was my biggest honor
This shit was just kinda just a hobby in my project lobby
We was tryna be the Queensbridge Cosby's
But the street life robbed me of that, so I had to put it in raps
And who could I ask for help? Older niggas was gettin' mad
But that's the gift and the curse, that's the good and the bad
At least you got Jay, but he already one of the greats
And it's hard for the great to tell somebody how to be great
Nigga I tried and niggas threw that shit right back in my face
They took my cosign, but they ain't let me EP their tapes
And when they joint tank, that's when they point blame
So point blank, young Cole, you won't be the same
The first album freedoms and them fourth album pressures
A big difference between 'em but I get why you said it
Radio records are needed, I just want it to bring the warnin'
Global warmin' to that cold world you was breathin'
That's some advice I never got
If I don't sell another record, I'll just steady rock
While you was writin' down my rhymes I was just tryna show you
That if you say what's on your mind, you can stand the test of time
Now I'm playin' Born Sinner loud, so you live, rock the crowd
Like wow, you made your nigga Nas proud
So you ain't let Nas down
It's just part of the game, becoming a rap king, my nigga
You ain't let Nas down
How that sound? Here the crown, pass it to you like nothin' nigga
You ain't let Nas down
Long live the idols, may they never be your rivals
Slick Rick was like Jesus, G Rap wrote the Bible
Now what you're 'bout to hear's a tale of glory and sin
Large Professor's my mentor, that's how the story end
__SEPERATE__
Uh, uh, uh, now let's get it all in perspective
For all y'all enjoyment, a song y'all can step wit'
Y'all appointed me to bring rap justice
But I ain't five-O, y'all know it's Nas yo
Grey goose and a whole lotta hydro
Only describe us as soldier survivors
Stay laced in the best, well dressed with finesse
In a white tee lookin for wifie
Thug girl who fly and talks so nicely
Put her in the coupe so she can feel the nice breeze
We can drive thru the city no doubt, but don't say my car's topless
Say the titties is out, newness here's the anthem
Put your hand up that you shoot with, count your loot wit'
Push the pool stick in your new crib, same hand that you hoop with
Swing around like you stu-pid, king'a the town, yeah I been that
You know I click-clack where you and yor men's at
Do the Smurf, do the Wop, Baseball Bat
Rooftop like we bringing '88 back
They shootin'! -- Aw made you look
You a slave to a page in my rhyme book
Gettin' Big/"big" money, playboy your time's up
Where them gangstas? Where them dimes at?
They shootin'! -- Aw made you look
You a slave to a page in my rhyme book
Gettin' Big/"big" money, playboy your time's up
Where them gangstas at? Where them dimes at?
This ain't rappin, this is Street-Hop
Now get up off your ass like your seat's hot
My live niggaz lit up the reefer
Trunk'a the car we got the streetsweeper
Don't start none, won't be none
No reason for your mans to panic
You don't wanna see no ambulances
Knock a pimp's drink down in his pimp cup
That's the way you get Timberland'd up
Let the music diffuse all the tension
Ball or convention, free admission
Hustlers, dealers and killers'ca move swift
Girls get close, you'ca feel where the tool's kept
All my just-comin' homies, parolees
Get money, leave the beef alone slowly
Get out my face, you people so phoney
Pull out my waist, the eagle fo-forty
I see niggaz runnin', yo my mood is real rude
I lay you out, show you what steel do
Mobsters don't box, my pump shot obliges
Every invitation to fight you punk hazas
Like Pun said, "You ain't even en mi clasa"
Maybach Benz, back seat, tv plasma
Ladies lookin for athletes or rappers
Whatever you choose, whatever you do
Make sure he a thug and intelligent too
Like a real thoroughbred is, show me love
Lemme feel how the head is
Females whose the sexiest is always the nastiest
And I like a little sassiness, a lotta class
Mommy reach in your bag, pass the fifth
I'm a leader, at last this a don you wit'
My nines'll spit, niggaz loose consciousness
__SEPERATE__
I need it from the top, AHHH!
This is history baby
Commissioner Steve Stoute, Lenny - ha!
God's Son, whattup?
D-Block, whattup?
Bravehearts, whattup?  Yeah
Yeah, yo
Yo ain't nothin but trouble God
When I kick in the door with D-Block, Bravehearts and the Double R
Don't make me let the machine off
This is methadone music that you can lean off
"Made You Look," the remix with me up on it
I copped your shit, now I break weed up on it
And everything is real I see
Like my niggaz that been home but they only got a jail ID
I helped the game, it ain't help me
I'm top five dead or alive and that's just off one LP
And, I still buzz, they feel cuz
Cause they know the flow's Ill just like Will was
I'm just tryin to make sure that my sons wealthy
Out of shape but I make sure that my guns healthy
I'm a ape, you can't stand 'Kiss
Comin through the hood in a Aston Vanguish the color of dandruff
They said we jumped him, I just let the gun snuff him
Copped P then turboed soon as they uncuff him
This goes out to all of your mans
Why put you in the verse when I can put in a coroner van
D-Block
THEY SHOOTIN!  Ah made you look
You a slave to a page in my rhyme book
Gettin big money, playboy your time's up
Where them gangsters, where them dimes at?
Yuh, woo!  It's time to go, Luda let's go!
I'm from the school of hard knocks, sneak peeks and low blows
Where X's mark spots and kitchens mark O's
Where love is gon' getcha and hate is gon' snitch ya
And fingers squeeze triggers like boa constrictors
It's the, Mr. Luda, Jada and Nas
And our bullets give you a deep tissue massage
So hear a song and dance while I make these ends
You never stood half a chance like Siamese Twins
AHHH - THEY SHOOTIN, look in the barrel
Then he made the front page of the Miami Herald
or Chi. Tribune, nozzles with silent doom
We in that A-Town Journal-list, filed with goons
You should print my information, quote my rhyme
And keep me in between these New York and L.A. Times
I was the victim of society, it's 'Cris the menace
With mo' shit out on the streets than evicted tenants
WOOOOOOOO!
Uhh.. uhh..
Jungle, Wiz, Nashawn!
We got 'em scared look
We got 'em scared they runnin
Yo, I grasp the ratchet, the blinker, the biscuit, the burner
The heat, the toaster, the twister you meetin your owner
The banger, the hammer, the flamers I aim at the cannons
and can ya, manhandlin ya, you'll be famous like cancer do
And cut, that's the end of your movie
Pretendin you actin like you and your mens'll come shoot me
My tennis shoes Gucci, old school pea soup green
Jean Lee suit on Beaver, clicko champagne
Friday the 13th my CD drop, I rhyme to more Base than EZ Rock
I'm Jason, call up P.D. watch
them Bravehearts, Jungle and Wiz and Nashawn
Ill Will rasta Lake, never revealin his face on
TV or pictures or even them niggaz
Sorry that I made you wait long, glad them fakes gone
WE SHOOTIN!  Squeezin them triggers with Luda beside me
Me and 'Kiss get Luniz of weed, set to Styles P.
Tell him hold his head, God's Son got him we made y'all look
From San Quentin to Riker's Island to..
__SEPERATE__
Lace the nations don't have it 
A hatred addict 
I need faces mad with frowns 
When I'm around 
Or I'm wasting the fabric 
I don't feel greater 
To my plush pieces 
'Cause you to suck your teeth 
So mean-mugging on my clean-thugging 
Mean nothing 
Women dream I'm your husband 
I'm Alex Pushkin 
The black poetry-writing Russian 
Ice disgusting 
I started bling 
How could you question my direction 
Or my time for collection 
Gangstas two-steppin' 
You hate me 
Should thank me 
But lately I burned so much trees 
I keep environmentalists angry 
I'm a rare dude, I'm a wonder 
Your best success is my worst blunder 
Y'all living trendy on pennies 
I cop plenty Fendi 
Vivienne Westwood, I'm good 
Get the whole Trump Tower top floor for the hood 
Dre & Cool, we riding heavy 
NY to Miami 'Cause . . . 
 
Now let's toast to the hustlers 
 
Tell the hustlers, toast to the gangstas. 
 
Tell the gangstas, toast to the ballers 
 
And tell the ballers pour glass for all us. 
 
I see THE haters on the floor jockin my swag 
I'm popping Ralph Lauren tags 
I'm pouring champagne inside a polo glass 
Model b'tches rollin grass 
Escabon folding cash 
toasting wit my entourage 
went for Robin Armitage to all my stars 
red carpet to the Larmitage 
We throwin red dice at the Mirage 
I pull that red Lamborghini 
or twenties out my garage 
instead of shopping South Beach like Khaled and Terror Squad 
We the Best! big pippin 
Top down chrome spinnin 
Top Gun Tom Cruise 
Tucked inside my Gucci linen 
No Jess Romo you tryin' a shine
up on with the nine 
on your jersey for promo 
Jessica Simpson that's so-so 
Nick want his baby back but thats lo so. 
Devil white 
5-0 they catch me at the pro bowl on the field diamonds 
choking the jockey on my polo 
CB let em know though 
 
Tell the hustlers, toast to the gangstas. 
 
Tell the gangstas, toast to the ballers 
 
And tell the ballers pour glass for all us. 
 
We make the world go round From my town to your town 
We on top no stopping us now 
We got patron to ballers two steppin 
Ladies on the float and all in two steppin 
From Malay to Harlem two stepping 
So I' stop cause we made it where the ladies are 
We start with Bellini's and end with Patron shots 
H. Lorenzo belt buckle from Chrome Heart 
A-life tag popper 
It'd be sad not to walk out the store with bags 
Worth a 100 cash, shopping 
Balance only would hafta 
Hafta to swell you up 
before a pea snaps as you wet a vanilla dutch 
Mets cap, that's Queens, I'm a vet 
Bet that, 300 carats the average up on the neck, black 
Paid the cost, be the boss, Black Caesar floss 
Weekends at the Venetian, pull up in that black Porsche 
Top down, new fashion 
Seeing me is like seeing through the lens of Helmut Newton's camera 
Light flashing, and I'm laughin' 
My plaque's from album sales 
Y'all is ringtone platinum 
But .99 cents adds up 
I don't hate 'em, I congratulate 'em 
The new young Prince with young Mike Jackson on the same track, what! 
Now let's toast to the hustlers 
 
Tell the hustlers, toast to the gangstas. 
 
Tell them gangstas, toast to the ballers 
 
And tell the ballers pour glass for all us.
__SEPERATE__
Reflect with radiance
Rising consciousness of my people in the stadiums
Or I can get ignorant like that nigga Maury Povich portray us as
I'm hip hop baby dad
And all of y'all my litter, my little kids
And my label's Mass Appeal
A blunt, a pill and some liquor
I get to my hitters, they spray your niggas ass
Get money fast, R.I.P. to Che, smell my kilo breath
I spit and I freeze you to death
Cuban tobacco mouth, trap nigga cologne
Been have the OG respect
Pick the city, I knock four of ya baddest
16 chilling with Supreme Magnetic
Fort Greene nigga with a little Queens bastard
Now I'm in a Ghost or a Benz or an Aston, icon status
And we still strapped in case you niggas want status
Still balling, still macking
Niggas ain't a 100, he 60/40
We 50/50, that's automatic
My niggas got open cases
Bitch niggas got watches and bracelets
And cee-lo, I never throw aces
Don't give a fuck about races
Pray that my niggas come out of the FEDs
Shout to my niggas who dead
We got the stripes
All I got is my real niggas for life
Nas pour henny, Future pour dirty sprite
Dirty soda in a styrofoam
Spend a day to get my mind blown
Dress it up and go to Nassau
200 miles on the dash
And gotta roll a pound up and gas it
Switching lanes in a Grand Rapide
We the ones that kept it cool with all these niggas
Til these niggas start acting
Shoot a nigga like a film in a movie
Nigga, gone let em have it
Balling like the March Madness
All these cops shooting niggas, tragic
__SEPERATE__
Uh-uh, uh-uh, uh-uh...
A Mastermind - Sees it coming before it comes
A Mastermind - Before he go to war he counts his one
A Mastermind - Everything planned out perfect, in case y'all niggaz got to get murdered
A Mastermind - Sleeps at night, real easy
A Mastermind - Cause everything he does is by the book
A Mastermind - Never do a thing irrational, lives forever, these tales are classical
Velvet bowties, bulletproofs in the tux, when I roll by
In car similar to a suanas, in my diamonds
And my principal is to study drama
Look what happened in Manhattan
A couple of years ago when guns started clappin'
Two of my dogs fell, two of my niggaz ran
They was amatures in beef with a grown man
It taught me the lessons of how the strong stand
And how the weak, end up in a coffin
Play it cool, that's the old school rule, man
Keep your ears to the street, y'all never lose man
Make your enemies believe there's love there
Cause in war, belief is all fair
Rock them to sleep, shots in your jeep
And you ain't never know the plot was from me
It's from my Masterminds
A Mastermind - Sees it coming before it comes
A Mastermind - Before he go to war he counts his one
A Mastermind - Everything planned out perfect, in case y'all niggaz got to get murdered
A Mastermind - Sleeps at night, real easy
A Mastermind - Cause everything he does is by the book
A Mastermind - Never do a thing irrational, lives forever, these tales are classical
It ain't a game it's the life
Think it's a game, you layin'
And I'm nice on that black stone merlo
Toast to my hero Nat Turner
Whether below zero, gave the keys to Kelis
Whispered in her earlobe, drive on
Cause she the wife and they the freaks
The underneath my girl caliber
They smiled at her and said "Goodbye" 
With niggaz who thug or die, they wild as us
My bodyguards are my Denially trucks
Knownin' that I'm surrounded by OGs that I don't really get down with
They got a seperate table for their freaks bought them drinks
So we could talk man-to-man so real niggaz could link
I knew, they kill hos too like Ray Carutth
They used to spray troops, now they managing groups
The main nigga sunny had big money since '82
Had two of my dogs whacked, nothing I could do
That was back when I had no crew, I switch that
Now I'm strong with niggaz who felt Sunny was wrong
My money's long his money is weak, he's losing sleep
Trying to feel me out, to see what it's gonna be
But I'm a Mastermind    
A Mastermind - Sees it coming before it comes
A Mastermind - Before he go to war he counts his one
A Mastermind - Everything planned out perfect, in case y'all niggaz got to get murdered
A Mastermind - Sleeps at night, real easy
A Mastermind - Cause everything he does is by the book
A Mastermind - Never do a thing irrational, lives forever, these tales are classical
I live a clean life, I don't even steal cable
I speak for myslef, my niggaz will slay you
Lucky us, this rap done worked out fine
FEDs, check me out, it's no dirt y'all find
This King Of New York shit only last 15 minutes
Every nigga get burned, but it's what you did with it
Niggas who brillant, came in and killed it
Made millions ever three months, new jury
I'm low, smoking blueberry, with a ho 
Who know a few scary individuals eerie as she gets into it
Squares they into voodoo
She says a Hail Mary and she says she knew who
Would come and try to kill you too   
A Mastermind - Sees it coming before it comes
A Mastermind - Before he go to war he counts his one
A Mastermind - Everything planned out perfect, in case y'all niggaz got to get murdered
A Mastermind - Sleeps at night, real easy
A Mastermind - Cause everything he does is by the book
A Mastermind - Never do a thing irrational, lives forever, these tales are classical
__SEPERATE__
Aight fuck that shit, word word
Fuck that other shit, you know what I'm sayin?
We're gonna do a little something like this, you know what I'm sayin?
Keep it on and on and on and on and..
know what I'm sayin? Big Nas, Grand Wizard, God what it is?
 Hah, know what I'm sayin?
You go 'head, do that shit nigga
I rap for listeners, blunt heads, fly ladies and prisoners
Hennessey holders and old school niggas, then I be dissin a unofficial that smoke woolie thai
I dropped out of Kooley High, gassed up by a cokehead cutie pie
Jungle survivor, fuck who's the liver
My man put the battery in my back, a differencem from Energizer
Sentence begins indented with formality
My duration's infinite, moneywise or physiology
Poetry, that's a part of me, retardedly bop
I drop the ancient manifested hip-hop, straight off the block
I reminisce on park jams, my man was shot for his sheep coat
Chocolate blunts make me see him drop in my weed smoke
It's real, grew up in trife life, did times or white lines
The hype vice, murderous nighttimes, and knife fights invite crimes
Chill on the block with Cognac, hold strap
with my peeps that's into drug money, market into rap
No sign of the beast in the blue Chrysler, I guess that means peace
For niggas no sheisty vice to just snipe you
Start off the dice-rolling mats for craps to cee-lo
With sidebets, I roll a deuce, nothing below 
Peace God -- now the shit is explained
I'm taking niggas on a trip straight through memory lane
It's like that you all it's like that you all it's like that you all
"Now let me take a trip down memory lane" -> 
"Comin outta Queensbridge"
One for the money
Two for pussy and foreign cars
Three for Alize niggas deceased or behind bars
I rap divine Gods check the prognosis, is it real or showbiz?
My window faces shootouts, drug overdoses
Live amongst no roses, only the drama, for real
A nickel-plate is my fate, my medicine is the ganja
Here's my basis, my razor embraces, many faces
Your telephone blowing, black stitches or fat shoelaces
Peoples are petrol, dramatic automatic four-four I let blow
and back down po-po when I'm vexed so
my pen taps the paper then my brain's blank
I see dark streets, hustling brothers who keep the same rank
Pumping for something, some uprise, plus some fail
Judges hanging niggas, uncorrect bails, for direct sales
My intellect prevails from a hanging cross with nails
I reinforce the frail, with lyrics that's real
Word to Christ, a disciple of streets, trifle on beats
I decipher prophecies through a mic and say peace.
I hung around the older crews while they sling smack to dingbats
They spoke of Fat Cat, that nigga's name made bell rings, black
Some fiends scream, about Supreme Team, a Jamaica Queens thing
Uptown was Alpo, son, heard he was kingpin, yo
Fuck "rap is real", watch the herbs stand still
Never talking to snakes 'cause the words of man kill
True in the game, as long as blood is blue in my veins
I pour my Heineken brew to my deceased crew on memory lane
"Comin outta Queensbridge" -> 
The most dangerous MC is..
"Comin outta Queensbridge" -> 
The most dangerous MC is..
"Comin outta Queensbridge" -> 
The most dangerous MC is..
"Comin outta Queensbridge" -> 
The most dangerous MC is..
Me number won, and you know where me from
__SEPERATE__
I'd like to dedicate this one here to my star,
To the one I cherish, 
She loves me unconditionally - no matter what,
I love her; always be here for you baby
Yeah
So for God, who gave me this gift, you;
So i give you this...
Bap bap bap bap bap, daa dee aaa deee ahhh
Bap bap bap bap bap, daa dee aaa deee ahhh, woooahhh
Yeeaah
Just me and my little one
Just me and my little one
Woooah
Even though we don't live in the same home,
And I may have missed yo graduation,
And no matter how many miles I’m away from you,
You know I love you,
Daddy on every station, 
Thinkin, I’m lovin my occupation,
I know I got you home waiting,
Des-y, I do it all for you
Bap bap bap bap bap, daa dee aaa deee ahhh, 
Bap bap bap bap bap, daa dee aaa deee ahhh woooahhh  
Little girl I give you the world
Yeeaah
Just me and my little one
Just me and my little one
I give you the world
Woooah
Even though you’ll be grown soon,
You gotta stand on your own two,
Please listen what daddy told you,
I know you think that I’m old school,
You’ll see that I was right soon,
One day you will meet the right groom,
And then,
You will see your life bloom,
And then you’ll know what’s right for you,
Bap bap bap bap bap, daa dee aaa deee ahhh, 
Bap bap bap bap bap, daa dee aaa deee ahhh woooahhh  
Little girl I give you the world
Yeeaah  
Just me and my little one
Just me and my little one
I give you the world
Woooah
Respect ya mom, no one will replace her,
She’s the one that went thru the labour,
But you don’t owe her no favours,
But her respect is due,
See daddy just wanna show you,
All the heartache I go thru,
For you,
Bap bap bap bap bap, daa dee aaa deee ahhh, 
Bap bap bap bap bap, daa dee aaa deee ahhh woooahhh  
Little girl I give you the world
Yeeaah  
Just me and my little one
Just me and my little one
I give you the world
Woooah
__SEPERATE__
I love you so much, dont never leave me, I wont let you leave
The ho turned me out, green eyes, had a crush on her
Since 5 years old, met her, fell in love wit her
I saved that ho cause she bring more hoes
She major yo, the way she left them other dudes cold
Heart-broken she walked right out of mad nigga's life
So when I bagged her up right, I had to make her my wife
And I aint gonna loose her like those other lames did
I keep a stash safe kid, when I proposed it made her face big
She keep me jigg, glorifying medallions
Got me in clothes made by Italians, feed me lobster and scallions
Watching her pile on my bed, her body feel stacked
She been around for years, know the hustlers, pimps, and macks
Bankers and diplomats
She the scratch on my back
Her c.r.e.a.m. I lust, now I got her I dont know how to act
When she not around, Im heated, bout' to lay somethin' flat
Know how to treat it, never take for granted, she got me trapped
My money, money, money, my bitch is my money
Ohhh money you my honey
Money is my bitch
Ohhh money, money, money, love her cause she keep a nigga rich
Ohhh money you my honey, but I think she got me pussy whipped
My money, money, money, my bitch is my money
Ohhh money you my honey
Money is my bitch
Ohhh money, money, money,
Yeah yeah that bitch treat me like a trick
Ohhh money you my honey, she says without her I cant be rich
All the fun we have together, I keep you in my pocket
Its so much of you I share you, and speak to you in private
You got me karats on my wrist
Im a savage for your kiss
Embarrassed when Im not with you, Im off guard
Niggas always expect to see us 2 together, stable
The best couple they seen since Trump and Marla Maple
Dont need no pre-nup, 
Cause when we hump we do it up, make sure we both will bust a doller sign nut
Before I got to know, my life I say was mediocre
Break of day, slingin' all night long, fienin' to stroke ya
Seeing niggas wit' you I wasn't happy
Wanted to stick them up to get you, heard you calling for daddy
And gladly I take you as my lawfully wedded wife
Never divorce me, I promise to treat you right
Keep you satisfied, never lie help you grow
My legal tender, lovely federal reserve note
My money, money, money, my bitch is my money
Ohhh money you my honey
Money is my bitch
Ohhh money, money, money, love her cause she keep a nigga rich
Ohhh money you my honey, but I think she got me pussy whipped
My money, money, money, my bitch is my money
Ohhh money you my honey
Money is my bitch
Ohhh money, money, money,
Yeah that bitch treat me like a trick
Ohhh money you my honey, she says without her I cant be rich
I wont sell my soul to you
What do I owe to you
My cars, my house, my flow to you
Screw you
Before you
Real niggas said I was cool, now I got you
The envy me cause I'm wit you
You floss too much
Turn niggas out, one touch
For you, my guns bust
You always said in GOD we trust
Its hard enough to keep counting on you
You cheat wit' government thugs, got the IRS pounding on you
I think I like'd you better when you where illegal
But you had to get professional
Musical
Now when we fuck we use profalactic, hard plastic
Stick you in ATM's, limited cash quick
Said you'd give me luxuary, when I asked it
Fucking me, I gave you back shots in ya ASSets
Promised happiness, but really did nothing for me
I guess bitches like you just grow on trees
My money, money, money, my bitch is my money
Ohhh money you my honey
Money is my bitch
Ohhh money, money, money, love her cause she keep a nigga rich
Ohhh money you my honey, but I think she got me pussy whipped
My money, money, money, my bitch is my money
Ohhh money you my honey
Money is my bitch
Ohhh money, money, money,
Yeah that bitch treat me like a trick
Ohhh money you my honey, she says without her I cant be rich
My money, money, money
Ohhh money you my honey
My money, money, money
Ohhh money you my honey
My money, money, money, my bitch is my money
Ohhh money you my honey
Money is my bitch
My money, money, money, yeah that bitch treat me like a trick
Ohhh money you my honey, she says without her I cant be rich
__SEPERATE__
My niggaz got scarred grills
Skully hats and gats be fullys
Brrrat, cars peel, the East Coast cartel
Rats get their tails snapped and trapped
The snitches in the streets and the snitches who rap
Pure euphoria, a dose of death to all of ya
Coroner choruses sung from The Bridge to Astoria
Dreams of fallin' in the elevator, passin' floors
Suddenly stop, the doors open up to a brick wall
I can smell the haters, wishful thinkers, bad luck prayers
Picture your tarot cards and bodyguards gettin' sprayed up
Sabotagin' my makeup, my watches get laced up
Even if they indicted Jacob
Forensics, Paramedics carry cowards off
Defibrillators shock to your chest, try to cough
They die and hit Hell from an iron
I'm flyin', wire or cell, I'm paid from this shit
Got bitches high as hell, and they fuckin' like AIDS don't exist
They get sent to your hotel, a maid and shit
Put a barrel in a capo mouth, 'til his scalp come out
You a kid, you don't live what you rap about
King poetic, too many haters to count
Too much paper to count, QB BITCH!
Join me in war, many will live, many will mourn
, pistols over brawn
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Join me in war, many will live, many will mourn
, pistols over brawn
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Got seven candles lit, black wallpaper, black carpet
Thinkin' about which nigga to target
You kill a nigga today, he lives forever
So I plotted out smarter, there'll be no Martyrs
Black Tec on the table, Mag .44
Black negligee on my bitch, she's at the door
Black fish eggs, nigga, that's the caviar
You niggaz fish-made, y'all niggaz is fifth grade
Niggaz, it's fifty ways to disect the General
If I give ya the top five, you will not survive
Rule 1: cocksucker, keep my name from your tongue
Rule 2: thought ya knew don't fuck with God's Son
Rule 3: see, matter fact, I just wait
If y'all reach top five, then I'ma eat y'all alive
Each one of you guys that claim Hip-Hop is still alive
Like y'all ain't in agreement wit Nas
That shit is dead motha'fucka, it's dead bitch
Join me in war, many will live, many will mourn
, pistols over brawn
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Join me in war, many will live, many will mourn
, pistols over brawn
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
From crack pushers to Lac' pushers and ambushers
And morticians to fortresses, case-dismisses
Laced in riches, cake ridiculous
From nickel and dimin; to trickin; them diamonds
Vegas, places in Switzerland
From non-blastin; to auto, I don't have to blast mine
They blast mine, black nine, you flatline
My cash climb, buy rare art
Antique pieces, Mona Lisa's, own no leases
Five-star restaurant eaters; don't forget who your peeps is
'Sposed to dine with you, sip that good wine with you
Only if they grind with you - or slang for ya
Seen niggaz live, laugh, party, and die in that very same corner
Pretty girls glance at us, status unconceivable
Private planes landed out in Teterboro, weed I twirl
Once even gave me a phobia
That I be in a spot trapped like Madame Zenobia's
With this kid eyein' my Rolly, y'all
Join me in war, many will live, many will mourn
, pistols over brawn
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Join me in war, many will live, many will mourn
, pistols over brawn
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
Afraid not of none of you cowards but of my own strength
There it is, QB bitch, yea, QB bitch, yea, yea, QB bitch
__SEPERATE__
I’m tryna put it all in words, but it’s
More than I can say
It’ll take a whole lifetime to tell you
More than I can say
Every time I wrote a line it’s still
More than I can say
This is the realest shit I ever wrote
More than I can say
Bottles and El Dorados, trapped in the allure
The sickness: dreaming of riches
Reality was the cure
My doctor, physician was music, of sure
His prescription was super-models, sandwiches and suicide doors
I used to stand in my mirror
Fixing up my hat right
DMV don’t make licenses for the fast life
Was taught never drop my head when I’m doing right
And though I may be watched by feds with the blue sights
I just wanted the whole world to bop their heads
Someone to stop my bread
If my pops was here, he’d be like “son, you the one
They gotta crown you, a gift from around you
Know they don’t understand you, but what can they handle?
If they was in your Gucci loafers, they’d be through, over
So stay on point, do what you do
Soldier: remember I’m with you when the world get colder”
I’m tryna put it all in words, but it’s
More than I can say
It’ll take a whole lifetime to tell you
More than I can say
Every time I wrote a line it’s still
More than I can say
This is the realest shit I ever wrote
More than I can say
Keep having the same dream
About a mic, a gun, a cross
They all in the middle of flames
An hourglass of salt dripping down to its last grain
Hear a voice that asks what do I claim?
I ask what it means. It’s sort of a trance
As the planet Earth appears in the palm of my hands
I could do what I wish with it, and waking up
To study my dreambook, see if it links up
Looking for some significance
Like does the dream represent this cold world I’m living in?
Ask my man, then his laughter begun
He had the same dream, but in his, he grabbed the gun
Damn son! I told him in mine I took the mic
The cross, I had it all my life, the same height
I’m trying to sneak sleep, so that my mom won’t find out
Time out: my body won’t wind down
I’m tryna to put it all in words, but it’s
More than I can say
It’ll take a whole lifetime to tell you
More than I can say
Every time I wrote a line it’s still
More than I can say
This is the realest shit I ever wrote
More than I can say
__SEPERATE__
American born, American raised, American made
My country shitted on me 
She wants to get rid of me 
Cause the things I seen 
Cause the things I seen 
]
It was packed on the Ryker's bus
The tight cuffs is holdin' me shackled
The life of a thug caught in the devil's lap
On the streets I was invincible
Cowards would duck at a glimpse if they knew
What my pistol would do, a fuckin' killa
Mothers of dope fiend embarrassin' me
All in front of my friends
In the street smile with no teeth
I never knew daddy, heard he had a 72 caddy
Died in a robbery, can't remember him, was probably 3
Why didn't my folks just die in this society
Why wasn't I a child of a doctor, who left stocks for me
Two little brothers, two sisters, them shortiez gots to eat
Mother's a junkie, she twisted, so all they got is me
I'm the provider, with goals to do much better than my father
Whether through drugs sold, or holdin' revolvers
Blurry visions of dad holdin' me high
It comes to me slowly, the words he would cry
]
It is I that step up
Me that don't give a fuck, you that bold, then it's all over soldier
Hummers and Range's through the desert
Fuck a 20 years, long as we got gas and we got water
Troopers lookin' for manslaughter
I gotta get back, for what they owe
Shoot'em in the back for the get back
Lead through shit bag, hold tie gag
Forget the life had, now we all rebels
Everything burnt down includin' the ghetto
We can see 4 miles the land its major rubble
And debris from the earth as we knew crumble
Yo you could see the sea
And the stars look closer to me
I'm a mad man, this is a real life movie Mad Max
S-K's, AK's max, ABR's spittin' and it ain't a rap
My mommy dearest pray for me hopin' I come back
But yo
]
Yo, I'm sittin' behind these prison walls
I got this pen and pad wishin' on a visit, God
Brothers is here for homicide and yo, it's some for rape
Some brothers innocent, I pray that I could just escape
How is the war
And yo I'm wishin' I was in your shoes
Holdin' machine guns
Clean fun shootin' ducks with fatigues on
Anywhere is better than this
It's America's plan every color of man inherits the shit
Yo I'm startin to think it's all a scheme, nobody cares
I know the warden is readin' the scribe
 But yo I swear, it's a billion dollar business
Courts, lawyers and jails
We all slaves in this business, I'm bout to rebel
]
There's not a bitch in sight
All block bench, all block gates
All gray fence, look who fucked it all up, Mr. President
I remember yesterday we was on the block gettin' bent
Now it's state of the art
I just saw the first dude I met here, his head came apart
What a bloody mess, a slug fest
I just buried 8 of mine, at night I hear grown men cryin'
You know I'm spittin' mine
I ain't goin' out here, we gotta win
Everytime I hear the wind I think a slug went in
I'm checkin' my chest, holdin' my head
Catchin' my breath, watchin' my back
Smokin' this grass, beatin' my dick, thinkin' of ass
I don't know what they broadcast, the news hash is fake
Everyday I'm feelin' like you, I wanna escape
And if y'all niggas feelin' like me, y'all niggas just say
__SEPERATE__
My generation will make a change 
This generation will make a change 
 
My generation will make a change 
This generation will make a change 
 
My generation will make a change 
This generation will make a change 
 
Now mi love fi see the schoolas dem a graduate 
A study hard and save the party for the holidays 
Diplomatic with dem Diploma 
And them bound fi great 
Because dem nah pick up no matic and a perpetrate 
And then I love the energies whe dem a generate 
My Generation it so special it will make a change 
Because the elders sew the seed and it a germinate 
So anytime dem see the progress dem a celebrate 
Because we rising up despite of the economy 
And then a we a star the show like the astronomy 
And how we keep on breaking through is an anomaly 
Because we keep remaining true without apology 
The mission ha to carry through and finish properly 
Say Gambia to Guadeloupe Paris to Napoli 
Say Zambia to Honolulu back to Tripoli 
And everybody want a future living happily 
Can you blame my generation, subjected gentrification, 
Depicting their frustrations over ill instrumentation 
Cause music is the way to convey to you what I'm facing, 
Placing my life in front of your eyes for your observation 
Now if you can't relate then maybe you are too complacent, 
Athletes today are scared to make Muhammad Ali statements 
Whats up with your motto? 
Will you lead? Will you follow? 
Improve your values 
Education is real power 
I reach em like Bono 
So get rid of your self sorrow 
Add some bravado 
Get wealthy likes Wells Fargo 
Its truth, that I am you 
And I am proof 
Surviving through 
We do what we gotta do 
Yo we could break the cycle let nobody lie to you 
Then maybe put our sons and our daughters in private school 
Cause there's a mission we gotta finish before we leave 
This generation is destined to do historic deeds. 
uhh if you weather that storm 
Then that rain bring sun 
Been a long time comin 
I know change gone come 
Man I gotta keep it movin to the beat of my drum 
Last night I set the future at the feet of my son 
But they thinkin that my generation gotta die young 
If we all come together then they cant divide one 
Don't worry bout it just be about it 
Got a message from god heaven too crowded 
But I say hey young world you've never looked betta 
And I heard change started with man in the mirror ughh 
This generation 
I'mma represent 
A generation led by a black president 
Now hows that for change 
Who knew that could change 
I don't even look at the flag the same hey ughhh 
So when you finish readin revelations 
Thank god for my generation
__SEPERATE__
Word to Will, buried in his fila suit and heavy chain
I wanna be iced-up nigga, bury me the same
I live for street glory and I die for ghetto fame
Respect all, fear none, my pride is everything
Initials in swimming pools floors, women lose draws
A true boss, never lose wars, got cheddar to floss
Guns under beds, mask and a flashlight
Living my life like everyday's my last night
Alcoholic on toilets, I shit blood
Foreign cars, models and stars, life of a rich thug
Mama told me from weed, I would switch drugs
To cocaine and hit clubs and deep-dish dubs
How would she know unless she hit the clubs, got her mack-on
Back in the 60's with an afro and her platforms
Bopping to the supremes, smoking joints
That's cool, but I'ma live how I want
 
I did it my way, from crumbs and roaches and rats
I did it my way, converted in from hustling to raps
I did it my way, from break dancing, back spins on the cardboard
I did it my way, to bullet proof bentleys, gats in the car's door
I did it my way, never gave a fuck what nobody said
I did it my way, they hope that I fail and wished I was dead
I did it my way, if I fucked op it falls on me
I did it my way, I'm lucked up and struck rich, now we all can eat
 
Gateways, marble floors, chandeliers
Juzzi's, gucci soap, throwing cash in the air
Though I, still feel broke with millions in the bank
And deals on the table, I focus to stay afloat
And just to think some would die to get with I got
They think its alot, the blink of an eye, you could get shot
Niggas is wolves, coming if you ruthless or not
But i be on point, put you in places where bodies rot
Never knew murder till I seen my man get popped
No blood soaking, laying there, eyes still open
I got a little closer, put my hand in his palm
He was looking right through me, Yo staring beyond
I wonder what he saw, the limoes, movies and tours
Did he die in vain and represent for the cause
Now I put his name on everything I'm involved
And that's the game, Ya'll can't relate, fuck ya'll 
 
I did it my way, from crumbs, roaches and rats
I did it my way, converted in from hustling to raps
I did it my way, I call it how I see it niggas
I did it my way, if you don't like it so be it niggas
I did it my way, I make my own rules, I do my own plans
I did it my way, gangstas do what they want
Suckers do what they can't
I did it my way, taking sacrifices kid
I did it my way, but now you only getting one life to live
 
Yo, hoes in my fold can slow me, roll with the brokest homies
Cold and we hopeless lonelies, scolding my foes who phony
From blocks where coke can feed you and cops are over evil
They know some people who tell on felons who sold some diesil
Here on and blow it rurals, its mine, knew a crew one time
'89, they took work to Caroline and blew big time
In just two years, their crew disappear
Snitches and bitches, smeared the paint on their pictures
Years back, I reminiscence and remember, sitting on wood benches
Gave me splinters, just a baby nigga thankful
When them killers came through, guns out, moving
I think the ones who said shorty go home, we about to be shooting
__SEPERATE__
Aiyyo whattup niggaz?
Fresh off the honeymoon
The honeymoon's over
Fresh off Vaca 
I'm jet-laggin', still jet-laggin'
But this just a preview
Let's get it on again y'all
I designed it - rhymed it - flow classic
You askin' - who am signed with?
The real deal is 'Ill Will', stay scomit
Why's drama when other artists pay homage
You hatin any rapper I do a song with
"What's wrong with Nas helpin' crews get stronger"
You selfish, wantin' me to yourself
But Prophets need help too, y'all see Nas get insulted
I ride for the real shit, High as the Lock's get melted
Twelve Years, givin' you nuttin' but big moments
How can 'Murda Inc' not wanna fuck wit
The top hustler - R.O.C. crusha
Nas a legend 'fore 'BIG & Pac' left us
Bubbled wit 'Dr. Drizze', You heard it on 
Sayin'-> "Nas is ring leader, brings Ether, brings heater"
Your dream teamer scream, "He's the Supreme Teacher"
Similar to anybody you know
Oh, I created, cremated, body that flow
Anyone you think is fuckin' wit me
Better be Vets - better be 'Ra', better be 'Kool G' or 'KRS'
Better be 'LL' or 'Slick' or them
Neva put me in the 'Top Ten' BITCH!
It's disrespect to the life that burnt the verses
Or nigga writes who comes first
It's the 'Ice Cube' 'MC Shan' them type dudes
So B.E.T.'s list was wrong, don't get me wrong
I did chill in the throne alone so long
This is my 
Yea, Escobaro Cigars, that's how we doin' it
Aiyo Quan welcome to the game
Shot-out to Ill Will )
Bravehearts stand up, whuttup Scarface
Whuttup Tre Williams )
Ill Will '05, what y'all know 'bout that?
Queens, Queens I know you miss me
I gotchu, I gotchu Queens, New York stand up
Ahha, I gotchu baby, let's do it again
__SEPERATE__
Tougher than concrete
Eh bwoy
Go labbajuice
Watch ya
Check it!
Boom
You Nah Mean
Mi dip out a whole fourteen
Nah Mean
And reload man extra magazine
Nah Mean
A wounded them housing scheme
Nah Mean
Nuff a dem a move sideways and lean
Nah Mean
Cant come bout when man deh in
Nah Mean
We nuh like dem colonial regime
Nah Mean
Ethiopian nuh like Mussoline
Nah Mean
Mi Queen hafi rock and come in
Nah Mean
And jump pon mi big trampoline
Nah Mean
And boost up her self-esteem
Nah Mean
Nuff a wonder how man kitchen so clean
Nah Mean
And which recipe dat a steam
Nah Mean
The lyrics dem a flow like a stream
Nah Mean
Mek you feel like you living in a dream
Nah Mean
It come to the crop man a cream
Nah Mean
It come to discipline man a Dean
Nah Mean
Mi tougher than a Hummer limousine
Nah Mean
We stepping we fresh and we clean
Nah Mean
I burn the stinkest of green
Nah Mean
Better listen up careful and keen
Nah Mean
A Puppa Nas a rock and come in
Nah Mean
We celebrate like I finished probation
Boy Boy
Notty Head with no chaser
Boy Boy
From the mouth I can spit out a razor
Boy Boy
Open up your facial like your boy Roy
In his prime
Eat food
Dinnertime
Jr. Gong pass the Guinness
Handle business
Black Velvet sippers
Females never bid us farewell
They with us
Cause we arrive on the scene
Just like a high beam
Nah Mean
Dont let us have to make the 9 scream
Nah Mean
At your racial
Policing Regime
Nah Mean
Spiritual like a Elohim
Nah Mean
In a casino or a yacht
Wherever Im seen
My brothers and sisters are never forgot
Nah Mean
Dont wanna hear another soldier drop
Nah Mean
Another dope addict get shot with the morphine
And Feds are indicting my block
Nah Mean
Theyre wearing Red from they shoes to they top
Nah Mean
Im wishing that all the violence would stop
Nah Mean
We nuh like the sound of siren
Nah Mean
And some bwoy soft like ice cream
Nah Mean
From a bwoy mek the Feds intervene
Nah Mean
We send a bwoy go tek intravene
Nah Mean
Parabellum dem a itch up inna spleen
Nah Mean
Inna Queens
Gunman reign Supreme
Nah Mean
Kingstonians are real blood fiends
Nah Mean
The world is a big crime scene
Nah Mean
Yo Yo Mr. President
What you doing for my residence?
Yo Mr. Minister
Why you being sinister?
Yo Yo Mr. President
What you doing for my residence?
Yo Mr. Minister
Why you being sinister?
Se Man a di real Buffalo inna Rastafari Regime
Bush Bungalow is where mi dwell with mi Queen
Trash to the bone down inna camouflage green
Nuff a dem that cant go the places we been
Nuff a dem that cant see the sights whe we seen
Thats why them face all a twist up and a lean
Nah Mean
Dem better mine we kick it off clean
Nah Mean
Man a Gangster just like Gambine
Dat Mean
Dem cant serve Congo Dread court supine
Nah Mean
A who you want come in convene
Nah Mean
Attorney have to rock and come in
Nah Mean
Mi pocket dem green like spurlene
Nah Mean
Mi regular fly out and fly in
Nah Mean
The stadium pack like sardine
Nah Mean
Cant catch mi speed a fassy hole need caffeine
Nah Mean
Run out a breath and antihistamine
Nah Mean
Wash over gold dem come in like Listerine
Nah Mean
You think a lie we badder than Al Pacine
Nah Mean
Its Genocide
Its a Genocide
Its a Genocide
Its Genocide
5th Floor cooking raw
Had my own supply
Cause of capitalist ways
That was back in the days
So now I do rap and it pays
__SEPERATE__
Word word word word
I come through in a new double R listening to smiling faces
Check out my jewelry pound in your faces
Italian air forces leather laces with the basket weave
Iron in your face so fast from the draft so sneeze
It's the nastiest, flashiest, turn girls to Massicast
Cause I be giving them pain, it's a cold world
Bernie Mac will be snappin' on you
But I ain't a joke; you think I'm here to entertain you
Fallen angel after them halos
Nobody moves until I say so, take the money out the safe slow
Escape route and I'm out, I cake out like intimates
like the brightest, the flyest
You got to be the flyest
I know your ass is mean, like you be strappin them
jeans, but you can work it like that
You got to be the flyest
You just take my pumps while standing in your pumps
cause you can work it like that
You got to be the flyest
You just breathe and stare while I'm pulling your hair
cause you can work it like that
You got to be the flyest
You can be Nas's angel, let the largest train you but
you work it like that
Uh, Philly rap a hydro, puffing on a line slow
You sea deep need me keep me kickin' like Del Reco
Pull up at the Delano South Beach I know
For King Solomon jury security in the Tahoe
Spandex for money, I stay on the tight
G-packs and weed stacks stay on the flight
Elbow out the left window, okays on the right
Canary out our ears, you know she playing them right
Hilton style, billionaire boys club
Braveheart, ya'll don't want no war with us
Dump a semi-auto made by, I made girls bust
When I hit them full thrust, full throttle
Big living, what it tastes like, tapes right, used to hate life
To move an eight, every night was my passion
Pipe bombs safe from stashes, Aston's, Rolls Royces
Cold oysters and many sorts of women shake like horses
I got them peeling out their clothes, really about this dough
Problem, hear me out just scone from my pistol poppin'
It's at my mind, just a mystery school
Brainwash them, then fix them with my tools
Mami hit me with some moves
I'm addicted to spinning, dipping these women in different waters
Watching for dudes with tape recorders on them cause they informants
I been okay with these warmers
Girls harass me and gas me and say that I'm enormous
Move your waist girl.. Yeah yeah 
You got to be Nas's Angel
You can be Charlie's Angel
You can be Nas's Angel
__SEPERATE__
Yo Funk Flex
what the fuck is the deli my niggee?
This is Nas in yo area
y'all know the signs, right?
Ryhmes, cash, weed, cars,
ghetto celebrities, hood moviestars
Gat slingers now rap singers is
who we are, Nasty to Nas,
Nas to Escobar
Rhymes, cash, da weed, cars,
ghetto celebrities, hood moviestars
Gat slingers now rap singers are
who we are, from Nasty to Nas,
Nas to Escobar
Y'all know this shit right?
We gonna get it right, get high tonight
Funk Flex right? My first tool 22s,
I hung with crews and rocked funny jewels
gold chains, halloween,
we bombed sunday schools
first blunts, cutting class
first wifee had me nothing fast
used to brag about who I had
Always wore a bag on my dick
Pants sagged on my kicks, Converse
Weapons, yellow, and purple magics
Fur had that black shit
shorties jumpin on mattress
97, pockets is fat, rock a soccer cap
Sunday, Yankee hats
God, can he be black, thanks for that
I'm original man, show improve
The mack move right in my hand
Blowdro, murderer, M.O., gone for O
Tinted window, hennessy XO, fuckin' wit Esco
Heavy metal go achoo, yo bless you
Jail niggas go ta hell quicker
lick you wit that hunting shot
Rockin VVS rocks, stylin, wildin
Peace to Queensbridge housin
congratulate flex, five-hundred thousand
SOLD
Fuckin better than gold, nigga
__SEPERATE__
Motherfuckin Dre!
 AHHHHHHH!
 Whassup my nigga?
 Sup NAS?
 Chillin God
 Niggaz is up in here hittin some of this CHRONIC nigga
 Yeah and this chocolate over here
They mixed this shit up
 Nigga hit some of this shit nigga
 Yeah, lemme get that
I'm tired of these niggaz, niggaz stealin beats
And niggaz is stealin, your whole techniques and shit
Niggaz wanna take everything from a nigga man
 Yeah yeah yo Nas it's like this man
Niggaz can't do it like I do it, d'yaknahmsayin?
Just like niggaz can't do what you do
 Right, right
 You know, can't nobody fuck with this
You know all these niggaz out here just..
talkin this East coast West coast bullshit
Niggaz need to kill that shit
and make some money, y'know?
 WORD!
 Fuck it
 What is it, what is it God?
 Let's get together, make some fuckin music
 Right, that's what I'm sayin, that's what I'm sayin
 and get PAID, and just.. let that be it
All these niggaz talkin all this bullshit
better sit back, and watch what happens
The Golden Child chop that ass up, you was holdin out
Let the streets be the court - and corners hold the trial
Fatal not fictitious
I rock the cable 86 ??, foreign cars young with crazy bitches
Mad smoke makes me able to quote
Solicitin, ill editions of that Murder I WRote
A provocative plan, can bring a knot to my hand
As the pyramids that stand on top of the sand
In the heat of the moment, like Farrakhan said, we need atonement
Bulletproof glass, S-classes, chrome kitted up
Cali ?? lit it up
I didn't get touched checking my nuts, I stood up and lit a Dutch
Clutchin gats quick to bust
But knowin how these niggaz tattle
I sneak move get the drop, one shot, without the gun battle
So when you run the lead travel
I come through it's taboo
Ninety-six ways made to clap you
Nas is comin, Nas is comin
Nas is comin..  Nas is comin
Nas is comin, Nas is comin
Nas is comin..  Nas is comin
In the black limo, Jack Daniels through the cracked window
I spot the fake, red dot his face, like a Hindu
Snatched the symbol, tied his hands too
Make examples, substantial amounts you owe, to the fam
Crew, Firm affliation, paper chasin
Chips glossy, rich Pablo Escabano
Sophisticado, Blazin hollows like Saddles
Rap apostle, nacho cheese, I'm Castro
compared to these niggaz who swear to be real
but impostors to Hoffa, Nas plague kills
Countin bills to send to all my jail niggaz who fell
From New York to L.A., Q.B. to C.P.T. for G.P.
A hundred G cars, Garcia Vegas cigars
Kani shit, mad jiggy
The clout, murder material serial scratched out
My name's passed out like it's somethin venereal
but back in stereo
From childbirth to hearses, flow like the Nile cover surface
I bit the fruit from the Serpent
Apocalyptic, get bent, stay splifted
Control the rap game you got it twisted
Dr. Dre way the 'Bridge say, shake dice and kiss it
Sip Crist', push the six with biscuit
Jeep full of chickens, pull up beside, have a listen y'all, Nas y'all
Fly gangsta, wavy hair teeth chipped in
My shit bump, in the courtroom drunk, links truck
rocky bracelet, cognac kernel never chase it
Rap hero, black DeNiro
Federal Bureau, tapped my line and got zero
Rap pro, diamond roll, hustlin low -
pro-file, white gold style, rakin bloody dough by the pile
Shot down, still alive he strugglin for the phone
Fo'-fo' blow him, when homicide comes, these three words are sung
Check this out
It's Nasty Nas, and Dr. Dre
Hahaha, East meets West
That's how we makin it happen
That's how it goes down for the nine-six
Aiyyo Nas let's get this money
Let's get paid
Sit back and watch all these motherfuckin clowns out here
riffin and beefin about this BULLSHIT
Yo, heh
While they doin all that
we just gon' kick back with these honies, this Cristal
Hah, and party to the year 2G
Hehehe, that's right, that's right
Yeah, Nasty Nas, Dr. Dre
Makin it happen
__SEPERATE__
"Nas is . . ." - ]
Freedom or jail, clips inserted, a baby's bein born
Same time my man is murdered, the beginning and end
As far as rap go, it's only natural, I explain
My plateau, and also, what defines my name
First it was Nasty, but times have changed
Ask me now, I'm the artist, but hardcore, my science for pain
I spent time in the game, kept my mind on fame
Saw fiends shoot up, and do lines of cocaine
Saw my close friends shot, flatline am I sane?
That depends, carry Mac-10's to practice my aim
On rooftops, tape cd covers to trees
Line the barrel up with your weak picture then squeeze
Street scriptures for lost souls, in the crossroads
To the corner thugs hustlin for cars that cost dough
To the big dogs livin large, takin it light
Pushin big toys, gettin nice, enjoyin your life
is what you make it, suicide, few try to take it
Belt tied around they neck in jail cells naked
Heaven and hell, rap legend, presence is felt
And of course N - A - S are the letters that spell . . . 
NAS, NAS
]
"Nas is like life or death.. I'm a rebel.. "
"My poetry's deep, I never fell.."
"Nas is like.. half man half amazing.."
"No doubt.."
"Nas is like.."  Earth Wind & Fire, rims and tires
Bulletproof glass, inside is the realest driver
Planets in orbit, line em up with the stars
Tarot cards, you can see the pharaoh Nas
"Nas is like.."  Iron Mike, messiah type
Before the Christ, after the death
The last one left, let my cash invest in stock
Came a along way from blastin, techs on blocks
Went from Seiko to Rolex, ownin acres
From the projects with no chips, to large cake dough
Dimes, givin fellatio, siete zeros
Bet my nine spit for the pesos
But what's it all worth, can't take it when you under this Earth
Rich men died and tried, but none of it worked
They just rob your grave, I'd rather be alive and paid
Before my number's called, history's made
Some'll fall, but I rise, thug or die
Makin choices, that determine my future under the sky
To rob steal or kill, I'm wondering why
It's a dirty game, is any man worthy of fame?
Much to success to ya, even if you wish me the opposite
Sooner or later we'll all see who the prophet is
"Nas is like.."  Sex to a nympho, but nothin sweet
I'm like beef, bustin heat through your windows
I'm like a street sweeper, greenleaf reaper
Like Greeks in Egypt, learnin somethin deep from they teachers
I'm like crime, like your nine, your man you would die for
Always got you, I'm like Pop Duke you would cry for
I'm like a whole lot of loot, I'm like crisp money
Corporate accounts from a rich company
I'm like ecstasy for ladies, I'm like all races
combined in one man; like the '99 summer jam
Bulletproof Hummer man
I'm like being locked down around new faces, and none of em fam'
I'm the feelin of a millionaire spendin a hundred grand
I'm a poor man's dream, a thug poet
Live it, and I write down and I watch it blow up
Y'all know what I'm like, y'all play it your system every night
Now..
__SEPERATE__
Uh, 2000 G
Yo, I need an encore y'all, you should welcome me back
You wanna ball till you fall, I can help you with that
You want beef? I could let a slug melt in your hat
Cuz I'm a wild barbarian, too hard, I'm scarin' 'em
Century 21 solar eclipse 
While you listenin' to the words that I wrote on the disc
Thelonius, my description is do-rags, pants sag down to my feet
AK is my heat, everyday in the street till I lay six feet
QB, PJs, and we playin' for keeps
Jewelry, cars and Jeeps is my motto
Four-fives with the hollows, silencers on the nozzles
Pop bottles with those who left here
The best years, wearin a bulletproof vest years
The aim for the head and chest years
What's your name? Make your name known
For the next year's, better rep, yeah
 - Nasty, Nas the Esco to Escobar   
Now he is Nastrodamus
Nasty, Nas the Esco to Escobar   
Now he is Nastrodamus
	
Nasty, Nas the Esco to Escobar   
Now he is Nastrodamus
Nasty, Nas the Esco to Escobar   
Now he is Nastrodamus
I let y'all niggas bang my shit before Saddam hits
The Nastrodamus tell us what time it is
I was the first one on that Don shit
First nigga to sing a hook on some TJ Swan shit
Black ski masks up in the projects, camoulflage, full clips
Run up in your crib, tie up your bitch
Weigh the bricks and we loco, so broke, brown coke won't sell
Spendin' your money on weed, smoke and hotels
Hood rats and bullet wound up females
Got babies by hustlers and niggaz in jail
Slingin for chips and fiends with burnt finger tips
Base heads, killed cab drivers just for a hit
A week later, sportin' Gators, gettin' thrills 
Our honies wearin' Gucci high heels
She come to scoop me, I chill
Leave streets alone for a sec
Hit the sky bar, sunset, and the sex is so high-tech
Uh
Now, lounge homeboy, you in the Godly zone
Rest in peace, Ill Will, now your name's in the throne
We gon' rep it the best that we can
Physically, you was killed by the weapons of man
But where you at now, you lamp laid in Mac's now
Where Bravehearts put they rap down in honor of your name, you a legend
And they don't understand how you C.E.O. from heaven
But that's another level, brethren
Tow G's, we got the type fam with Mac 11's
We do squeeze, thought it's not right
But that's the zone that we left in
Bentleys, Porches, DRJ watches
Sick with the bread, Lamborghini trucks topless
Laptops with 100 gigabytes, ninja bikes
And we all roll dice, for each other's ice
And how does one guy multiply to more than five wise guys?
But only one man, only the mind's eyes, can understand that I'm...
Ill Will
Nastrodamus
New LP for the 2G
Uh
Bravehearts
Nation
Big Things
Lucciano
Oh, the Lord again
M-O-B-B Deep
Zaire
Jungle
Raise hope
__SEPERATE__
Word
Got some Remy Martin, some good-ass cigars
Check it out
Ayo, late night, candlelight, fiend wit’ diesel in his needle
Queensbridge leader, no equal, I come from the Wheel of Ezekiel
To pop thousand-dollar bottles of scotch, smoke purp, and heal the people
Any rebuttal to what I utter get box-cuttered
Count how many bad honeys I slut, it’s a high number
Name a nigga under the same sky that I’m under
Who gets money, remain fly, yeah, I wonder
Eyes flutter as love when Nas pops up
Stars get starstruck, panties start drippin’
The ways of Carlito, blaze, torpedo cigars
Drop moves, drop clothes
Louis the XIII freaks, women nice size
I ride like Porsches, thick, brown and gorgeous
It ain’t my fault, semiautomatic weapons
I brought the world “Crazy,” I’m rich and I’m girl-crazy
Dick ‘em, convince ‘em all to praise me
They ideology is confusion, I lose ‘em
Fellates me, who hate me? My gun off safety
Since a Tunnel escape key, my jewelry in HD
Silent rage, pristine in my vintage shades
I’m not in the winters of my life or the beginner stage, I am the dragon
Maserati, pumpin’ Biggie, the great legend
Blastin’, I’m after the actress who played Faith Evans
My little Jackie Onassis, dig?
I’m so high, I never land like Mike Jackson’s crib
Best on .45, still crack ya rib sacrilege
When lids talk trash about the nasty kid
Past nasty now, I’m gross and repulsive
Talk money, is you jokin’? Cash everywhere, in my bank, in the sofa
In the walls, in the cars, in my wallet, in my pocket
On the floors, ceiling, the safe, bitch
I got all you envy, but don’t offend
I’m skinny, but still I’m too big for a Bentley
You are your car, what could represent?
Too Godly to be a Bugatti, you honestly
Must design me somethin’ Tommy Mottonic from Queens had before the ’90s
Drug dealer call, rush to the bar
Move, niggas, we don’t give a fuck who you are
Black card heavy like a magnet, in my stitched denims
Pretty women see them them saggin’
Bet a hundred stacks, niggas’ll run it back
Just havin’ fun, I ain’t even begun to black
Light another blunt in fact
Nasty kid
Yeah
The kid!
Nasty kid
For the hustlers, thick as yellow bitches for the suck of it
Got a bunch of niggas in prison braggin’, sayin’ “It was Nas I used to hustle wit’”
I display fashions while my lungs engage hashes, guns on my waist past his
Since I’m cakin’ up, put funds in my safe, laughin’
And joining the niggas passin’ you niggas was straight assin’
Excuse the vulgarity, I’m still not fully adjusted
Or used to the new fans hearin’ me spit rapidly
I never see the whips niggas be claimin’ they drivin’
I guess entertainment means blatantly lyin’
Fake it ’til you make it, I’ve driven those toys
Been in the wars, in the streets, cops kickin’ in doors
For my deen niggas, your flow cheap as limousine liquor
I’m no fake rap CD listener, sit back and roll a mean swisher
For my Gs, tell these clowns make room for the king, nigga
__SEPERATE__
I landscape madness on plantation
A brief notation, to link quotations
Manuscript of a crypt, transcripts a screen
I narrate the broke scream
You fiend like a dope fiend, 'cause I'm in between your
Blood stream and mean like Idi Amin
Pick up the feather and ink, I plan and think
'Cause my mentality can make man extinct
The drums attack me, drumsticks ask me
To direct my dialect, so it's exactly
Synchronized, I'm a open your eyes
And shake your eyelids so you're now surprised
Nasty Nas conducts a raw note
My vocal chords can repel a sore throat
My domain is like Dracula's castle
Rhyme's are psychic, brain cells I hassle
I provoke your instinct not to think
Enter your brain and drain, till your mind is blank
My microphone... is on
And that's my word is bond!
__SEPERATE__
Yo, they call me Nas, I'm not your legal type of fella
Moet drinkin, marijuana smokin street dweller
Who's always on the corner, rollin up blessed
When I dress, it's never nuttin less than Guess
Cold be walkin with a bop and my hat turned back, huh
Love committin sins and my friends sell crack
This nigga raps with a razor, keep it under my tongue
The school drop-out, never liked the shit from day one
Cause life ain't shit but stress fake niggaz and crab stunts
So I guzzle my Hennesey while pullin on mad blunts
The brutalizer, crew de-sizer, accelerator
The type of nigga who be pissin in your elevator
Somehow the rap game reminds me of the crack game
Used to sport Bally's and Gazelle's with black frames
Now I'm into fat chains, sex and Tecs
Fly new chicks and new kicks, Heine's and Beck's
It's like that ya'll... I neva stop ya'll...
Cause Nasty Nas got the ghetto Hip Hop ya'll
Straight out of the Bridge
It's Real and any day could be your last in the jungle
Get murdered on the humble, guns'll blast, niggaz tumble
The corners is the hot spot, full of mad criminals
Who don't care, guzzlin beers, we all stare at the out-of-towners
Yo... You beta get it on time kid...
Star razor under my tongue... and near my gums
When I'm not strapped... I'll blow just before you cock your glocc back
Touch your temple, and leave you leaking, while I'm speaking
Cause shit that I be freaking, gives me papers, while I'm sleeping... G
I walk around mega hard, like wateva God...
You could'ntcount how many niggas my bretta scarred
I light the marijuana smoke, and chicks
And posers that I'm smoking with
Could'nttake it, my ganja left emotionless
I leave your brain stuck
Giving hoes a plain fuck
They call me Nasty, but I'm not with the strange stuff
When I'm drunk, I stagger right and lyrics with a dagger
Next stabber catchin reck, badder than a tec would had-a...
Lefted struck, now whose next up...
I murder, send me to San Quentin and I'm lynching niggas... Word Up
A sing-sing, fuck is a hang, still is the same thing...
No... matter the cell blockNas will be named King
I slaughter... drinking head rock...
Fuck sum water, peace to all the niggas with my shit in ya tape recorder
To all the scramblers, be careful
Goin hand in, hand
Cause on the yo, yo chill, chill, Word to Mother
__SEPERATE__
Queensbridge, 41st side
Yo yo yo
I gots no birth records, no next of kin
Know a lot of mothafuckers, got no best friends
Know the weather checkin ten-ten winds a.m.
First and fifteenth I'm layin at the check cashing
Think I'm playin, blink and I'm sprayin
Wrong move, ask yourself what leg you wanna lose cuz you gon' lose
I cripple niggas, from the complex to simple niggas
Keep showin  y'all what difficult is
Half the world sayin "Dunn" but never been to the Bridge
What type of shit is that, fraudulence, what's the cause of it
Nature came threw erasing all of it, stop the presses
Goofy niggas ask a lot of questions
I repeat this is not a question
If you don't reply quick enough I gotta press em
Keep the glock by the intestines, .38 waist
Wit a belt, regardless of your stats you can catch a shell
Believe me when I tell you this 
There's nuttin y'all can do for me 
I don't believe in selfishness, this time I want my crew to eat 
We comin through a hundred strong 
We comin wit a hundred miles 
Bumpin shit all summer long 
We want it dead and want it now 
Yo aiyyo I rap for my niggas and rap for the hoes
Rap when I'm gettin dressed, when I iron my clothes
Depressed, I kick raps that change your whole mood
And somehow stick to your ribs like soul food
Rap for wheelchairs, rap for canes
Ace bandages and niggas wit sprain, stay limpin in pain
I rap for math, english, even rap for science
Gotta try to laugh, keep myself from cryin
I rap for Giants, the Jets, the Yankees, the Mets
It's New York New York, from Clue to Flex
New cassettes stay poppin up, your boo let me throw my cock in her
Rappin got me two proper nuts
It's crazy, I even rap for high school coach
White folks fiend out like in Michael Doates
Creamed out, dope stashin
For those askin, I flow for TV, HBO and closed caption
Aiyyo aiyyo aiyyo aiyyo
Don't go to Texas, don't go to Watts
Don't go to Queensbridge, nigga don't go to cops
Don't snitch when you're gettin bagged
In the penns, don't bitch when you gettin stabbed
Just hold that, I pose for Kodak's, rose to stardom
Hoes in Harvard, sophmores get knocked off, nigga watch yours
I watch the game like it's Saint John's
It ain't wrong, take a blank piece of paper, a pen paint songs
Type colorful, writin that shit a thug'll do
In the heat of the moment, type to make a sudden move
Some'll snooze, some'll snore, they won't admit that dunn is pure
Once I quit, niggas wanted more
Cop my shit once it come in store
The first week be at the top of the charts, got it jumpin off
Hot verses wit a hundred thoughts
One theme, gettin caught in my zone you'll become a corpse
__SEPERATE__
I had bad chicks that blow cum bubbles like bubblegum
Plus they ass lick, summer house be sippin' rum
Layin' lazy in the recliner, couple days
In my ashtray, smoke signals from the haze
I stick my finger through it, the ring of smoke broke
That symbolize weak guys, pop the strong link off
The infrastructure caves in, amazin'
I ain't have to read The Art of War to slay men
Serve niggaz, bird niggaz speakin' reckless
When their momma love the kid's records I made
You gutless, you don't know struggle
Throw a couple slugs at you, hell grabs you
Nail stabs a hand of the Nasirine
I carried the cross to help you afford that plasma screen
Gave you chumps a path to walk, hold my hand
I'ma guide you like the OG, but don't talk, don't get it confused
'Cause none'a y'all can fit in my shoes
Y'all made of chemicals, artificial actions
God'll forgive you bastards
Only if you repent to the Nazareth Savage
I squeeze nipples like pimples to get the puss, get it?
Form a crew, swallow forty cal' bullets after dinner's finished
Wash it down with a shot of tequila, pocket full'a scrilla
Can't come close to, Francis Copala, Samson -- no Delilah
You're pint-sized, I'm mic's eyes with the gladiator tattoos on it
You scared to look too long at, sit on a don's lap
Tell you a story shorty, spicy like lories
Chickenheads and orgies, criminals that draw heat in their late forties
Drug habits, love grabbin' kids up like yours
Sendin' you a picture of them in their drawers with black eyes
Savage guys, you hire Magnum PI's to bag up my guys
Said you was a thug with a good disguise, try to protect your cabbage
You're runnin' from the Nazareth Savage
Son's backward flows, they say mine is very scary
Smell fear like a canine that finds buried babies
And all of y'all wear that same aroma
How to blow on your eighth LP, I'll show ya
You're wack nigga, face it
In the history of the game, you have no placement
Liquor and weed just massacred their mind, or thee celebrity
Or they couldn't change with time, so now they run they mouth
But when the sun go south, them comes come out
My cavalry woulda been threw ten in your skin
Casualty you don't wanna be, don't want it with me
Straight savage
__SEPERATE__
Man, we love you man, you hear me?
This is coming from the General man, Nas man
Bravehearts love you man, this is to all of ya niggaz
Who been using my name from day one to make yourselves famous
Whether you shouting me out on your records
Whether you try to come at me on your records, or whether you just you know...?
You know... you know how you dick riding man?  This goes out to ya
Cause we love you man, I've done made a lot of niggaz famous man
But I'm gon' make you...I make you make the papers, this one's for you
Hey yo, word up
It been a lot of times when a nigga ain't wanna fuck with this rap shit no more
Fuck this shit, but you know...?  Through the year I started to see shit, you knowamsayin?
Nigga see niggaz driving around with fancy cars, diamonds all that shit
Niggaz thinking nigga chilling
Got to go through a whole bunch of big shit, all that bullshit
But you know what?  Fuck that shit, you know how I feel? Yo
I'm never gonna give it up, fuck that
I made a mil', but that ain't good enough
Ocean and a beach so I can really live it up
See, that's the life baby, you got to understand its life baby
I'm never gonna give it up, fuck that
I made a mil', but that ain't good enough
Ocean and a beach so I can really live it up
See, that's the life baby, you got to understand its life baby
Uhh... I got the mansion and the nice ride
Platinum chain, and an ice watch
All this fame in my life's hard
I entertain, been so many places, see so many different faces
They look the same from the stages
After the concert, hours of long work
Home sick form the role, smoking my lungs hurt
Even thought now I'm recording songs
It's better than, when I was pedaling doing wrong
I brought the crew along, we thuggin
Fucking married bitches; they go to their husbands
Bitches ain't shit, we laughing with them
Can't even role the streets now, without the heat
I bust the nigga off impost, that shit is weak
On trial, what I'ma tell the judge
He don't give me no smile, he don't give me no love, nor the jury
That's when I need celeb status and the blackness
This motherfucker's hate rappers, what a life
My girl hate when I'm with my boys, think I'm cheating
Every morning knocking at my door state policeman
Give him a reason, but I don't give it to him
They said they heard a disturbance, and I just listen to him
See, I cooperate until they push me
Cops hate when you know the law, you ain't pussy - you not fake
Can't explain how much I miss the block
When we was slinging with my niggaz, screaming "Fuck the cops!"
Now when I'm dreaming I can see my dead friends smile
Wake up, I get some air, hit the mall for a while - pick up some gear
I'm going to the studio; my engineer put the track up from "out west"
And he told me spit it clear...Uhh
Another hit is just made, another album
So ones again we getting paid, and now we wilding
Get hype to shoot the video, all in the city yo
I'm hoping that a nigga blow, but ya don't hear me thought
Uhh...the haters say I ain't shit
Hope I fall, but I can't slip
Got to ball, got to bank chips
Old ladies hate my moms cause their kids ate them out to nothing
Catch my moms on the bench fronting
I got to stay awake, got to pray today
Glad I'm still alive, fuck what them haters say
So many times I ain't wanna rhyme
Wanted a normal life, when I ain't Nas all the time
Uhh...so many problems too, do what I got to do
As long as my moms say, "Boy, I'm proud of you!"
I keep laying hits, one is never quits
Plus if I stop, how will I stay legit?
__SEPERATE__
Uh, it's a new world, it's a new world, 
It's a new world, it's a new world
Uh, it's a new world, it's a new world
Yo, celebrate the new life
New ways to make money
New ways to break dummies
Forge they name and take money
Computers ain't that smart
Whatever man built could be taken apart
Anything new can get old
Like dudes started rockin' platinum, some stopped wearin gold
solar-energized rides, no steering wheel, tell it how to drive
No propellers in the sky
Airplanes like many rockets
Waitin lists for the rich to get tickets to visit Mars
While the poor people starve, computers takin over they jobs
A man's forced to live off land
Now it's back to the caveman era
When we made fire, by two sticks rubbin together
The truth is, many are too scared of new data
America Online, cut off, see you later
 2x]
Yo, welcome to the new world, new beginnin
A new way to play, a new way a livin
Cash is the past, a new way a spendin
New life for man, children, and women
Yo, the new Mike Tyson's Roy Jones
Bill Clinton's the new JFK, without the hole in his dome
The new Don Trump is Bill Gates
Not because his occupation, it's 'cause we respect his cake
And cake mean his stock, net gross
Young kids step it up, go for the most
New cameras in police cars takin pictures
New hustlas gettin new street figures
And US embassies overseas
almost every foreign country's under seige
Covertly startin wars, CIA, NAVY Seals
Commit larcenies that be worth over mil's
Oil in the earth spills
Girls blow they body up, birth control pills
African's pick diamonds out a dark caves
Then we wear it on our necks just so we can light up the stage
Say goodbye to the brainwashed
Say goodbye to the young kids who not smart
Say goodbye to the toasters and Pop-Tarts
Yo, it's real
Swallow a little pill, there's a four-course meal
Say hello to the one world
Say hello to the sky, somethin's out there watchin you and I
More enticin than Star Trek, StarTec phones
Your genes and DNA is used to make clones 
You got CD-Rom, everythang operates by computers
Then what happens when circuit breaks
Y2K's the big scare
Scientists say we ain't prepared
What I feel is contrare
Alexander Graham Bell made telephones, yes
But now we request for your e-mail address
I might be old fashioned, stuck in my ways
But nothin make me more happier than seein today
__SEPERATE__
They say we N-I double G-E-R, we are
Much more, still we choose to ignore
The obvious, man this history don't acknowledge us
We were scholars long before colleges
They say we N-I double G-E-R, we are
Much more, but still we choose to ignore
The obvious, we are the slave and the master
What you lookin for? You the question and the answer
We trust no black leaders, use the stove to heat us
Powdered eggs and government cheeses
The calendars with Martin, JFK and Jesus
Gotta be fresh to go to school with fly sneakers
Schools with outdated books, we are the forgotten
Summers, coolin off by the fire hydrant
Yeah I'm from the ghetto
Where old black women talk about their sugar level - it's not unusual
To see photos of dead homie's funerals
Aluminium foil on TV antennas
Little TV sit on top the big TV, eating TV dinners
Girls die their hair with Kool-Aid
They gave us lemons, we made lemonade
But this nigger's payed, ancestral slaves
Descendant of kings, it's necessary I - bling
Put rims on everything, where tims on every scene
Do I mean it like a slave master, nigger?
No I'm gangsta, gotta eat rappers
My abbreviation was young when I caught the cases
That should mean the court could see my changes, take off the bracelets
Savers went broke, smokes, our diesel, need no Bowflex
My chest still cut up like a bag of dope
Bought patterns consist of boss matters
Spit Moses' lost commandments like a growth sandwich out my mouth
Toast to government cameras peepin us, every week I must
Have my cars, homes and phones squeaked for bugs
But this is what I was dreamin of
Between cuttin hard coke with new razors slicin my fingers up
They used to string us up, we wanted everything
But the one bringin us cake be the snakes like the
Like the New Jack City wedding scene
No time for mistake, tryna get it like metering
{My nig', what up my nig'? Yep!}
People afraid of criticism
But I always put myself in a sacrificial position
They been know I ain't just rappin for fame
I got my old homie hasslin to father askin for chains
Yep, I get it cash up, this paper don't matter
They see me from skinny to fatter, when I rap about war
They got a tendency to scatter, they ain't my backup no more
So now my enemies are at my front door
Cause anytime we mention our condition, our history or existence
They callin it reverse racism
Still to this day the streets torn - my brother Jung'
I'll always have a seat for him - not behind me, beside me
You'll always know where to find me
They say the close ones will hurt you
So let's keep a small circle
On the road to riches and diamond rings
In the land of the blind, the man with one eye is the king
__SEPERATE__
Uhh, uhh
Uhhh, uhhh, uhhh
No idea's original, there's nothin new under the sun
It's never what you do, but how it's done
What you base your happiness around material, women, and large paper
That means you inferior, not major
If niggaz could look inside my mind, you'll find
where bodies are buried, first look past the hotties who dimes
Go to the center, enter with caution, past the braincell graveyard
where weed's responsible for memory loss
Let's witness, the horrific, the stench'll make you nauseous
See what I seen every day I live with this torture
Lightin spliffs up to stay high like 24 hours
Sleep with my heat, wash with my gun in the shower
My tongue is power, it thrills women, kills demons
Long as I'm still breathin I'm still winnin, I'll teach 'em
The hood converted from trey bags to 20's a girl
Everybody had money, every summer was real ill
Four-finger rings, dope dealers, 'caine/Kane
"No Half Steppin'" with flat tops when Rakim reigned
Radios on card tables, Benetton, the Gods buildin
Ask for today's mathematics, we Allah's children
And this was goin on in every New York ghetto
Kids listened, Five Percenters said it's pork and Jell-o
We coincide, we in the same life, maybe a time difference
on a different coast, but we share the same sunlight
Your part of the world, might be like colors and gangs
While on my side, brothers'll murder for different things
But it all revolve around drugs, fame and shorties
Stuck for your bling, stripped for your chain, the same story
From, Czechoslovakia to Texas metropolis
Them, treacherous rocksters in the Mexican mafias
Be scrappin with tats on they back, violent wars
Nothin less than a lethal injection if ever caught
Courtrooms, eagles and flags, American style
While in our world, the ghetto stays incredibly foul
Watchin for paint chips, don't want no led in yo' child
But them gangstas put lead in yo' child, the bezzy be out
The chain be like a hundred K
Shinin since Roxanne Shante' made "Runaway"; that's been a minute
Genesis is deep, my features are that of a God
It's not a facade it's a fact, these rappers wanna be Nas
My Exodus doesn't exist
I'll never leave the streets, it's all in my mind
Even with sleep I'm duckin nines in my dreams
Si-rens, wide awake, why'd I think it would change
Can't hide when you famous or even try to do the same things like
Somebody's always watchin, my life
Before I, walk out the door I size up every option
Eyes cut every direction, it's like God or guns
Which is better protection?  Can't decide, that's a hard one
I mean they wanna see me in prison, the chains bamboozled
Headline readin "Rapper Slain From a Man Shootin"
__SEPERATE__
P.S. 111 at free lunch, embarrassed but managed to get a plate
We was kids hungry, Mom's working I was famished, she getting home late
So I decided now I'm in charge
Either stay full of starve, corner store like Mr. Spare-a-Quarter
Before Air Jordans, Kareem Abdul-Jabbars
Trying to cop quarters and trying to move that hard
Roll with a shooting squad
How could I not succumb? How could I not partake?
15 I got a gun, 16 I robbed a train
Licked off a shot for fun, what's got inside my brain?
A hustler's job ain't done, 'til he becomes a king
But I'm a righteous son, despite I'm in the mist of
Dudes who switch up and change
They want to carry me like I'm some kind of lame
I never let them know, I just forgive them though
Either that or the pistol blow
I remember early mornings - syrup sandwiches, sugar water, yeah
Walking up the dark stairwells, elevators was out of order, yeah
Worth 200 million now, bicentennial nigga, flat screens and condominiums
Brazilian women on Xannies they pulling off panties
I'm pushing 40, she only 21
Don't applaud me, I'm exhausted G
Me and my red cup, my blunt and my red cup
Y'all wouldn't know me without one, I keep a fresh cut
Remember talking to Biggie inside his Lex truck
Said stay fly when you bummy, keep your pajamas Armani
Hood forever, I just act like I'm civilized
Really what's in my mind is organizing a billion black motherfuckers
To take over JP and Morgan Goldman and Sachs
And teach the world facts and give Saudi they oil back
1990's Polo Ralph Lauren on him
Gone a few years, the whole world snoring on him
Girls all up on him, I spread them, hit them and dead them
She says, "third leg from a legend is sheer heaven"
She says, "it is the greatest loving"
The tales you hear is the truth, on me
Who wasn't the most faithful husband
Reveal my life, you will forgive me
You will love me, hate me, judge me, relate to me
Only a few will, this how it sounds when you too real
They think it's just music still
Well I am a graphic classic song composer
Music notes on sheets, I wrote this piece to get closure
Some of y'all might know Kelis - this goes to her with love
Also goes to y'all, let's see
The craziest things already happened to me
So either you'll be laughing at me or you're laughing with me, ha
__SEPERATE__
Oooooooooooh!
Maxwell go and sing
Ooohh, this for the ladies
M-A-X
Doin' it
N-A-S
I'm back again 
Again, again, I'm back again 
Ooh, tell me 
I'm back again 
Again, again, I'm back again
Uh, yeah the booty is the bass
The highs, the beauty in ya eyes
First glance I became alive
She went through a lot of dangerous guys, surprise
Now she went to side on Nas
Cause I ain't choose her, she chose me
In the party, it was a early day a March
When I first had ya legs arched
In the park, wasn't even dark
We was in the zone, we ain't care who watch
Baby was ?? though the trees was sparked
She said till you get enough, please don't stop
So I played wit it, got the moist spot hot
If I ain't hittin' the bottom, I'm getting some top
My hair cut look air brushed
Whatever I wear is straight plush from the ears to chucks
As we ?? across the dance floor
Just, me and you no one else but us to
No other girl in the room
No other girl in the room but you
There's nobody but you
No other girl in the room
No other girl in the room
No other girl in the room but you
There's nobody but you
No other girl in the room
In the early eighties, shorty had me off the wall
A super freak as my thoughts revolved
It's like a menage Winona Gaye and Leila Hathaway
Both they fathers a tell me to play, sip ??
On our honeymoon everyday
We dance to the same tune everyday
Beauty and the goon they would say
You promise, savage beast
You a sexy freak
Your moist lips negates the ecstacy
Number one in my book, no discrepancy
When you walk on the earth, you be reppin' me
I'm obsessed with thee, cherish every breath you breathe
No matter what's going on around us
All I could hear was the sound of 
Twirlin' her around just 
See nobody in the crowd just 
No other girl in the room
No other girl in the room but you
There's nobody but you
No other girl in the room
No other girl in the room
No other girl in the room but you
There's nobody but you
No other girl in the room
Uh, horns!
Clap
Everybody clap
C'mon, clap
Max mellow I'm out
Oh it's just my, it's just my, it's just my girl
Oh, it's just, just my, just my baby, you
Just you, just me, no one else but you
No one, no one, just me and you, oh babe
Clap!  Break it down
You know it all comes from Africa
But my version is the blues
__SEPERATE__
What nigga! What bitch-ass niggaz! What! Babe, babe, start the car!
Nasir, come on let's go! Get in the car now, let's go! Throw it out, let's go!
Aight, aight, aight, yeah. But I got 'em. But I got 'em, though.
This is crazy, why didn't you just throw it out of the car?
This is so stupid, what are you doing? Why are we even out here?
Why are we out here? What's going on? This is retarded, yo we gotta..
This is crazy. Never again. You'd throw everything away, for what?
Yeah, my man Kool G Rap told me son do not look back
Chill up in the mansion with a fat glutious max, relax
When people act schoolin' with facts, tell 'em
At this point in my life I'm all about chillin'
Ridin' around in something sick and the dress flies
And twist, homie's hermano just died I gotta let it ride
That's what I got the public thinkin' my nigga
Just cause I ain't in the hood don't mean shit my nigga
I know who died before the body dropped
I know the guns that were used how much money the shooter got
Cause on the private yacht I'm still within earshot of it all
The top ten list of the most grimiest guys of all time
Is all we talk when we talk of New York y'all
Who to call and who to stay away from
Whose mother's address to have just to play it safe son
Women they lust up so quick to give 'em up
What cars and what trucks they drive in what towns
They spend the most time in when they grindin'
I found out most of them are cowards they hidin'
Behind reputations that's sour
Not going back
The streets keep tryin' to say
Come back around this way
I've already gone that way
I won't go back today
 I'm not goin' back
The streets keep tryin' to say
Come back around this way
I've already gone that way
I won't go back today
 I'm not goin' back
First thing that happen when you make a little paper
You think the Marriot is livin' in a skyscraper
Till you come across some ever more flyer paper
Realize that five-star 'tellies are even greater
Terry-cloth robes, elegance, movie shit
Heated-up marble floors with jacuzzis in it
First-class flights, diamonds in your crucifixes
All those things you still ain't really doin' shit kid
Cause in reality I'll earn my salary
The way I flaunted it then would now embarrass me
It kinda make me wanna hate bling it's a race thing
How they sell blacks to bootleg shit infact
Real millionaires spend 60 mil on paintings
Whores charge niggaz with raping
Cause we come out doors of Maybach cars
Watch us make bets on race tracks smokin' cigars
So they counter the laws to take what's ours
Bout 500K on a lawyer to beat the charge
So you can't stop us from making a billion dollars
Instead of goin' back I'm buying the projects
But I'm not going back
The hood's in me forever y'all
But I'm not going back
The streets keep tryin' to say
Come back around this way
I've already gone that way
I won't go back today
 I'm not goin' back
The streets keep tryin' to say
Come back around this way
I've already gone that way
I won't go back today
And of course y'all know what I'm not going back to
Those no friends of mine..
Ten carat gold it shine..
Sony if they don't have dough to sign..
Y'all know that I'm not going back to
Those liars who would..
Not help you if they could..
Coke on the stove in the hood..
Y'all should know that I'm not going back
The hood's in me forever y'all
But I'm not going back
The streets keep tryin' to say
Come back around this way
I've already gone that way
I won't go back today
 I'm not goin' back
The streets keep tryin' to say
Come back around this way
I've already gone that way
I won't go back today
 I'm not goin' back
__SEPERATE__
Yeah yeah, aiyyo black it's time 
Yeah, it's time man 
Yeah, straight out the fuckin dungeons of rap
Where fake niggaz don't make it back
I don't know how to start this shit, yo, now
Rappers I monkey flip em with the funky rhythm I be kickin
Musician, inflictin composition
of pain I'm like Scarface sniffin cocaine
Holdin a M-16, see with the pen I'm extreme, now
Bulletholes left in my peepholes
I'm suited up in street clothes
Hand me a nine and I'll defeat foes
Y'all know my steelo with or without the airplay
I keep some E&J, sittin bent up in the stairway
Or either on the corner bettin Grants with the celo champs
Laughin at baseheads, tryin to sell some broken amps
G-Packs get off quick, forever niggaz talk shit
Remeniscing about the last time the Task Force flipped
Niggaz be runnin through the block shootin
Time to start the revolution, catch a body head for Houston
Once they caught us off guard, the Mac-10 was in the grass and
I ran like a cheetah with thoughts of an assassin
Pick the Mac up, told brothers, "Back up," the Mac spit
Lead was hittin niggaz one ran, I made him backflip
Heard a few chicks scream my arm shook, couldn't look
Gave another squeeze heard it click yo, my shit is stuck
Try to cock it, it wouldn't shoot now I'm in danger
Finally pulled it back and saw three bullets caught up in the chamber
So now I'm jetting to the building lobby
and it was filled with children probably couldn't see as high as I be
 It's like the game ain't the same
Got younger niggaz pullin the triggers bringing fame to they name
and claim some corners, crews without guns are goners
In broad daylight, stickup kids, they run up on us
Fo'-fives and gauges, Macs in fact
Same niggaz'll catch a back to back, snatchin yo' cracks in black
There was a snitch on the block gettin niggaz knocked
So hold your stash until the coke price drop
I know this crackhead, who said she gotta smoke nice rock
And if it's good she'll bring ya customers in measuring pots, but yo
You gotta slide on a vacation
Inside information keeps large niggaz erasin and they wives basin
It drops deep as it does in my breath
I never sleep, cause sleep is the cousin of death
Beyond the walls of intelligence, life is defined
I think of crime when I'm in a New York state of mind
"New York state of mine" - ]
Be havin dreams that I'ma gangster -- drinkin Moets, holdin Tecs
Makin sure the cash came correct then I stepped
Investments in stocks, sewein up the blocks
to sell rocks, winnin gunfights with mega cops
But just a nigga, walking with his finger on the trigger
Make enough figures until my pockets get bigger
I ain't the type of brother made for you to start testin
Give me a Smith and Wessun I'll have niggaz undressin
Thinkin of cash flow, buddah and shelter
Whenever frustrated I'ma hijack Delta
In the P.J.'s, my blend tape plays, bullets are strays
Young bitches is grazed each block is like a maze
full of black rats trapped, plus the Island is packed
From what I hear in all the stories when my peoples come back, black
I'm livin where the nights is jet black
The fiends fight to get crack I just max, I dream I can sit back
and lamp like Capone, with drug scripts sewn
Or the legal luxury life, rings flooded with stones, homes
I got so many rhymes I don't think I'm too sane
Life is parallel to Hell but I must maintain
and be prosperous, though we live dangerous
cops could just arrest me, blamin us, we're held like hostages
It's only right that I was born to use mics
and the stuff that I write, is even tougher than dice
I'm takin rappers to a new plateau, through rap slow
My rhymin is a vitamin, Hell without a capsule
The smooth criminal on beat breaks
Never put me in your box if your shit eats tapes
The city never sleeps, full of villians and creeps
That's where I learned to do my hustle had to scuffle with freaks
I'ma addict for sneakers, twenties of buddah and bitches with beepers
In the streets I can greet ya, about blunts I teach ya
Inhale deep like the words of my breath
I never sleep, cause sleep is the cousin of death
I lay puzzle as I backtrack to earlier times
Nothing's equivalent, to the new york state of mind
"New York state of mind" - ]
"Nasty Nas" -
__SEPERATE__
Uhh
Yo, yo-yo, y'all
Whattup?  Whattup
It's time man 
Straight up, it's time man
Aight, set that shit off
Broken glass in the hallway, bloodstained floors
Neighbors, look at every bag you bring through your doors
Lock the top lock, momma shoulda cuffed me to the radiator
Why not?  It might've saved later from my block
N.Y. cops, hookers crawlin off the stroll, coughin
stitches in they head, stinkin and I dread thinkin they be snitchin
But who else, could it be, shook at these, unmarked vans
Parked in the dark -- NARC's, where's your heart?
Hustlers starve; they bust a U-e I jog
to my building -- come out later wearin camouflage
See the sergeant and the captain -- strangle men
Niggaz gaspin for air; til they move no more and just stare
with dead eyes -- tired of riots, shit is quiet
Simple-minded fools infiltrate grimy crews
Overcrowded cribs, uncles home from bids, sister's pregnant
father's on drugs, moms is smokin, beds is piss-infested
Had eight partners growin up, eight turned to seven
Seven turned to six niggaz, got two in heaven
Six of us, holdin it, now it's five rollin thick
The sixth one's parole flipped; five niggaz, went to fo' quick
when he went O.T., college life, converted into gangbangin
Four niggaz still hangin, years passed and slang changin
Three of us now, fourth nigga ain't around
We all thought he was real -- he did the snake shit
Fake shit -- beat his ass down, yo his mouth
could've got us all wasted, what a fuckin clown
All I got left in the end is two of my best friends
And we all goin out, to the death for these ends, WHAT?
New York, New York )
New York, New York )
You heard about it, you see about it
You read about it, it's in your papers
It's in your daily news 
New York chronicles, every day
The crime rate, the murder rate
The money rate, the paper chase, youknowhatImean?
New York state of mind baby, check it out
I'm at the, gamblin spot, my hands on a knot
New York Yankee cap cover my eyes, stand in one spot
I take a nigga dough, send him home, to a shoebox
You lost that nigga I put your dollar in the jukebox
Hear my favorite song, all these niggaz sing along
All the ciggarette smoke's cloggin my lungs, hoodrats flashin they tongue
Young thugs blastin they gun, we got reputations
Bitches and niggaz both on parole or probation
Shit is sick, niggaz got gats, army fatigues
I got my eyes glued on, whoever walk in the lead
Cause I ain't playin, niggaz'll run up in here and shoot up this shit
Stick yo' ass up, niggaz'll find the loot in your kicks
Bunch of triple-cross niggaz, just New York niggaz
Lift you off your feet when they was just talkin with you
Some of these dudes the Feds be on em, you knew em for years
Be the type when you walk in a pub, they offer you beers
That ain't gangsta, niggaz is up North with tatted tears
Your name's on the affadavit, you ratted kid
Faggot-ass niggaz that be scared to do they bids
Fuck you, we run you out of N.Y, you can't live
Got your quiet niggaz, that relocated down South
comin back to floss, then you got the jealous loudmouths
All of a sudden we got Crips and Bloods, D.T.'s
runnin round quick to split your mug, it's ea-sy to score
but it's hard to get the shit off
Niggaz fightin over hundred sales, jump in the car and drive off
When the fiend come around the block, happy as hell
Niggaz, mad cause they ain't get a piece of that sale
Cutthroat connivers, universal, ghetto survivors
Go to any hood that's live and make it liver
A lot of niggaz scheamin, some real, some niggaz frontin
But I'm a big dreamer, so watch me come up with somethin
New York, New York
New York, New York
__SEPERATE__
What's up kid? I know shit is rough doing your bid
When the cops came you should've slid to my crib
Fuck it black, no time for looking back it's done
Plus congratulations you know you got a son
I heard he looks like you, why don't your lady write you?
Told her she should visit, that's when she got hyper
Flippin, talk about he acts too rough
He didn't listen he be riffin' while I'm telling him stuff
I was like yeah, shorty don't care, she a snake too
Fucking with the niggas from that fake crew that hate you
But yo, guess who got shot in the dome-piece?
Jerome's niece, on her way home from Jones Beach - it's bugged
Plus little Rob is selling drugs on the dime
Hangin out with young thugs that all carry 9's
At night time there's more trife than ever
What's up with Cormega, did you see 'em, are y'all together?
If so then hold the fort down, represent to the fullest
Say what's up to Herb, Ice and Bullet
I left a half a hundred in your commissary
You was my nigga when push came to shove
One what? one love
Dear Born, you'll be out soon, stay strong
Out in New York the same shit is going on
The crack-heads stalking, loud-mouths is talking
Hold, check out the story yesterday when I was walking
The nigga you shot last year tried to appear like he hurtin' something
Word to mother, I heard him fronting
And he be pumping on your block
Your man gave him your glock
And now they run together, what up son, whatever
Since I'm on the streets I'm gonna put it to a cease
But I heard you blew a nigga with a ox for the phone piece
Whylin on the Island, but now with Elmira
Better chill cause them niggas will put that ass on fire
Last time you wrote you said they tried you in the showers
But maintain when you come home the corner's ours
On the reals, all these crab niggas know the deal
When we start the revolution all they probably do is squeal
But chill, see you on the next V-I
I gave your mom dukes loot for kicks, plus sent you flicks
Your brother's buck whylin' in four maine he wrote me
He might beat his case, 'til he come home I play it low key
So stay civilised, time flies
Though incarcerated your mind 
I hate it when your moms cries
It kinda wants to make me murder, for real-a
I've even got a mask and gloves to bust slugs for one love
Sometimes I sit back with a Buddha sack
Mind's in another world thinking how can we exist through the facts
Written in school text books, bibles, et cetera
Fuck a school lecture, the lies get me vexed-er
So I be ghost from my projects
I take my pen and pad for the weekend
Hitting L's while I'm sleeping
A two day stay, you may say I needed time alone
To relax my dome, no phone, left the 9 at home
You see the streets have me stressed somethin terrible
Fucking with the corners have a nigga up in Belleville
Or h.d.m., hit with numbers from 8 to 10
A future in a maximum state pen is grim
So I comes back home, nobody's helping shorty doo-wop
Rollin two Phillies together in the Bridge we called 'em oowops
He said, "Nas, niggas could be bustin' off the roof
So I wear a bullet proof and pack a black tres-deuce"
He inhaled so deep, shut his eyes like he was sleep
Started coughing, one eye peeked to watch me speak
I sat back like the mack, my army suit was black
We was chillin' on these benches where he pumped his loose cracks
I took an l when he passed it, this little bastard
Keeps me blasted he starts talking mad shit
I had to school him, told him don't let niggas fool him
'cos when the pistol blows the one that's murdered will be the cool one
Tough luck when niggas are struck, families fucked up
Could've caught your man, but didn't look when you bucked up
Mistakes happen, so take heed never bust up
At the crowd catch him solo, make the right man bleed
Shorty's laugh was cold blooded as he spoke so foul
Only twelve trying to tell me that he liked my style
Then I rose, wiping the blunts ash from my clothes
Then froze only to blow the herb smoke through my nose
And told my little man that I'm a go cyprose
Left some jewels in his skull that he can sell if he chose
Words of wisdom from Nas try to rise up above
Keep an eye out for Jake shorty wop
One love
__SEPERATE__
Word is bond! you got six millions on that jack hero, this shit is real
Aiyyo aiyyo aiyyo, aiyyo check this shit out, man
Aiyyo God, give me a cigarette man!
Yo! here you go, here you go, here you go, Come On!!
Check it out man, check out what I got here, man
You know I got to check this, what is that?!
Yo, this some letter I've got from my man Nas, man ~ Word is Bond!
What it said, kid?!
What up kid? I know shit is rough doing your bid
When the cops came, you shouldn't slid into my crib
Fuck it black, no time for looking back, it's done
Plus congratulations, you know you got a son
I heard he looks like you, why don't your lady write you?
Told her she should visit, that's when she got hyper
Flipping, talking about he acts too rough
He didn't listen, he be riffing, while I'm telling him stuff
I was like yeah, Shorty don't care, she a snake too
Fucking with the niggaz from that fake crew that hate you
But yo, guess who got shot in the dome-piece?
Jerrome's niece, on her way home from Jones Beach
It's bugged, plus little Rob is selling drugs on the dime
Hanging out with young thugs that all carry Nines
And night time there's more tripe than ever
What up with Cormega, did you see him, are y'all together?
If so then hold the fort down, represent to the fullest
Say What's Up to Herb, Ice and Bullet
I left a half a hundred in your commissary
You was my nigga when push came to shove
 One what?
 One Love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love means keeping it Real
Dear Born, you'll be out soon, stay strong
Out in New York, the same shit is going on
The crack-heads stalking, loud-mouths is talking
Hold, check out the story yesterday when I was walking
The nigga you shot last year tried to appear like he hurting something
Word to mother, I heard him fronting
And he be pumping on your block, your man gave him your glock
And now they run together, what up son, whatever
Since I'm on the streets, I'ma put it to a cease
But I heard you blew a nigga with an ox for the phone piece
Wilding on the Island, but now with Elmira
Better chill cause them niggaz will put that ass on fire
Last time you wrote, you said they tried you in the showers
But maintain when you come home the corner's ours
On the reels, all these crab niggaz know the deal
When we start the revolution all they probably do is squeal
But chill, see you on the next V-I
I gave your mom Dukes loot for kicks, plus sent you flicks
Your brother's buckwilding in Four Maine he wrote me
He might beat his case, 'til he come home I play it low key
So stay civilized, time flies, though incarcerated your mind dies
I hate it when your moms cries
It kinda makes me wanna murder, for real-a
I've even got a mask and gloves to bust slugs for one love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love means keeping it Real
Sometimes I sit back with a Buddha sack
Mind's in another world, thinking how can we exist through the facts
Written in school text books, bibles, et cetera
Fuck a school lecture, the lies get me vexed-er
So I be ghost from my projects
I take my pen and pad for the week and hitting L's while I'm sleeping
A two day stay, you may say I need the time alone
To relax my dome, no phone, left the Nine at home
You see the streets have me stressed something terrible
Fucking with the corners, have a nigga up in Bellevue
Or H.D.M., hit with numbers from 8 to 10
A future in a maximum State Pen is grim
So I comes back home, nobody's out but shorty doo-wop
Rolling two phillies together in the Bridge we called them Oowops
He said, "Nas, niggaz could be busting off the roof
So I wear a bullet proof and pack a black treys-deuce"
He inhaled so deep, shut his eyes like he was sleep
Started coughing, one eye peeked to watch me speak
I sat back like the mack, my army suit was black
We was chilling on these bitches where he pumped his loose cracks
I took an L when he passed it, this little bastard
Keeps me blasted, he starts talking mad shit
I had to school him, told him don't let niggaz fool him
Cause when the pistol blows the ones that's murdered be the cool one
Tough luck when niggaz are struck, families fucked up
Could've caught your man, but didn't look when you bucked up
Mistakes happen, so take heed never bust up
At the crowd catch him solo, make the right man bleed
Shorty's laugh was cold blooded as he spoke so foul
Only twelve trying to tell me that he liked my style
Then I rose, wiping the blunts ash from my clothes
Then froze, only to blow the herb smoke through my nose
And told my little man that I'm a go Cyprose
There's some jewels in the skull that he can sell if he chose
Words of wisdom from Nas try to rise up above
Keep an eye out for jake Shorty, what one love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love, One Love
 One Love, One Love
Uhhhh.. One Love means keeping it Real
All of the brothers that left up down, keep that One love
For the brothers out in the East, keep that One love
For all the brothers Uptown, keep that One love
For all the brothers in jail, keep that One love
One Love means keeping it Real!
__SEPERATE__
One time.. yeah.. yeah..
Yo, all I need is one mic, one beat, one stage
One nigga front, my face on the front page
Only if I had one gun, one girl and one crib
One God to show me how to do things his son did
Pure, like a cup of virgin blood; mixed with
151, one sip'll make a nigga flip
Writin names on my hollow tips, plottin shit
Mad violence who I'm gon' body, this hood politics
Ackowledge it, leave bodies chopped in garbages
Seeds watch us, grow up and try to follow us
Police watch us {*siren*} roll up and try knockin us
One knee I ducked, could it be my time is up
But my luck, I got up, the cop shot again
Bus stop glass bursts, a fiend drops his Heineken
Richochetin between the spots that I'm hidin in
Blackin out as I shoot back, fuck gettin hit! 
This is my hood I'ma rep, to the death of it
'til everybody come home, little niggaz is grown
Hoodrats, don't abortion your womb, we need more warriors soon
Sip from the star sun and the moon
In this life of police chases street sweepers and coppers
Stick-up kids with no conscience, leavin victims with doctors
IF YOU REALLY THINK YOU READY TO DIE, WITH NINES OUT
THIS IS WHAT NAS IS BOUT, NIGGA THE TIME IS NOW!
Yo, all I need is one mic..
All I need is one mic.. that's all I need
All I need is one mic.. all I need niggaz
All I need is one mic.. yeah
All I need is one blunt, one page, and one pen
One prayer - tell God forgive for one sin
Matter fact maybe more than one, look back
at all the hatred against me, fuck alla them
Jesus died at age 33, there's thirty-three shots
from twin glocks there's sixteen apiece, that's thirty-two
Which means, one of my guns was holdin 17
Twenty-seven hit your crew, six went into you
Everybody gotta die sometime; hope your funeral
never gets shot up, bullets tear through the innocent
Nothin is fair, niggaz roll up, shootin from wheelchairs
My heart is racin, tastin revenge in the air
I let the shit slide for too many years, too many times
Now I'm strapped with a couple of macs, too many nines
If y'all niggaz really wit me get busy load up the semis
Do more than just hold it explode the clip until you empty
There's nothin in our way - they bust, we bust, they rust, we rust
Led flyin, feel it?  I feel it in my gut
THAT WE TAKE THESE BITCHES TO WAR, LIE 'EM DOWN
CAUSE WE STRONGER NOW MY NIGGA THE TIME IS NOW!!
All I need is one mic.. that's all I need, that's all I need
All I need is one mic.. there's nuttin else in the world
All I need is one mic.. that's all a nigga need to do his thing y'know
All I need is one mic..
ALL I NEED IS ONE LIFE, ONE TRY, ONE BREATH I'M ONE MAN
WHAT I STAND FOR SPEAKS FOR ITSELF, THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND
Or wanna see me on top, too egotistical
Talkin all that slick shit, the same way these bitches do
Wonder what my secrets is, niggaz'll move on you
only if they know, what your weakness is I have none
Too late to grab guns I'm blastin cause I'm a cool nigga
Thought I wouldn't have that ass done?  Fooled you niggaz
What you call a infinite brawl, eternal souls clashin
War gets deep, some beef is everlastin
Complete with thick scars, brothers knifin each other
up in prison yards, drama, where does it start?
You know the block was ill as a youngster
Every night it was like a, cop would get killed body found in the dumpster
For real a hustler, purchased my Range, niggaz throwin dirt on my name
Jealous cause fiends got they work and complain
Bitches left me cause they thought I was finished
Shoulda knew she wasn't true she came to me when her man caught a sentence
Diamonds are blindin, I never make the same mistakes
Movin with a change of pace, lighter load, see now the king is straight
Swellin my melon cause none of these niggaz real
Heard he was, tellin police, how can a kingpin squeal?
This is crazy, I'm on the right track I'm finally found
You need some soul searchin, the time is now
All I need is one mic.. yeah, yeah yeah yeah
All I need is one mic.. that's all I ever needed in this world, fuck cash
All I need is one mic.. fuck the cars, the jewelry
All I need is one mic.. to spread my voice to the whole world
__SEPERATE__
: speaking]
turn my headphones up, nothing gon' stop me now
i'm here baby, we here!
it's yo' world ..
Dit is voor al m'n peeps en fans
En hersenders die verder kijken dan de pers
De kudde meningsvorming, de herder dit verse
Hoe hevtiger de stress, des te verder de levensles -
Zich ontwikkeld, des te verder het besef
Wat moet je zonder liefde beginnen, misgeliefde beminnend
In 't diepste van binnen, met omin liefde verzinnen
Vertaal me tranen in leven, in lyrics zwevend
Woorden banen zich snelwegen in de geest, met lanen en stegen
Binnen in haalt m'n hart z'n weg, naar m'n vingers
Kan het niet echter verzinnen
Hand op m'n pen, en m'n tekst kan beginnen
Sirenes wennend zwaar in m'n brain
Van jaren lang een vreemde eend, tot een maand op nummer één
En flashbacks van m'n jongenskamer, jaren alleen
De dood van geliefde,  en viel m'n tranen in een
Je breekt daar, wat wou je nou
Als je verder gaat en denkt.. na
Hou jij van jouw, als je nergens staat
Een weg met lege praat, ga niet voor geld of de bedels
Ben me bewust van deze verse, dus benut elke regel
Je hoort de Brain omdat je puur wou
Voor iedereen, van Nederland tot Kaap-Verdië, Aruba, Bonera, Curacao
Suriname, Turkije, ..., Marokko em Vlaanderen
Afrika tot Aziatische wijken, Zuid-Amerika, Europa
USA en wereldwijd, m'n wereld blijft in één vibe
Naast de Brain in 1 Mic!
: whispering again]
All I need is one mic.. 
All I need is one mic.. 
All I need is one mic..  all I need
All I need is one mic..  yeah, uhu
All I need is one cub, one page, and one pen
One prayer - tell God forgive me for one sin
Matter fact maybe more than one, look back
at all the hatred against me, touch alla them
Jesus died at age 33, there's thirty-three 
from  there's sixteen apiece, that's thirty-two
Which means, one of my duns was holdin 17
Twenty-seven hit your crew, six went into you
Everybody gotta die sometime; hope your funeral
never get caught up, pain go through the innocent
Nothin is fair, brothers roll up,  from wheelchairs
My heart is racin, tastin revenge in the air
I let it all slide for too many years, too many times
Now I'm strapped with a couple of , too many 
If y'all people really wit me get busy load up the 
Do more than just hold it explode the  until you empty
There's nothin in our way - they bust, we bust, they rust, we rust
 flyin, feel it? I feel it in my gut
THAT WE TAKE THESE DUDES TO WAR, LIE 'EM DOWN
CAUSE WE STRONGER NOW MY PEOPLE THE TIME IS NOW!!
: whispering again]
All I need is one mic.. 
All I need is one mic.. 
All I need is one mic..  all I need
All I need is one mic..  yeah, uhu
Alleen in boeken verstraten
Lees je boeken, luister je blaten
Hoor politici weer oefenloos praten
Voel je verlaten, en moet dan wel wraken
Het goede verlaten, plaatsmakend voor woede -
Door haten en voel je gelaten
Wie gooid er roet in zaken
Wie blijft er vloeken en praten
Wie heeft het goed en wie flaat het
Wie is bedroefd en wie schaad het
Wie hoest er - wie gaapt er
Wie broest er - wie slaapt er
Wie doet er zoveel namaak
Wie bloed er, wie haperd
Zoveel vragen in een wereld
Banger en enger, en ben met verlangen verstrengeld
Op de klank van merengue
En voor speciale personen voel ik diepe liefde, die prachtig is
MC ik niet voor niets, verdieper dan in een alchemist
FUCK een diss! pak is, ik rock op shit
Ik rock een diss, veel te lang ingeslikt
To m'n ziel naar adem snakkend is
Alleen vrede in m'n geest
Op stage met die ene mic
Wreed en hight, tekeer gaand als een vreselijk beest
Schreeuw et uit! verschil moet er zijn
Tyfus voor non-believers
Laat je niks wijs maken, peeps, en ga voor wat je lief is
En je hoeft niet te doen alsof, die shit is jezelf
En zoek maar waar je wilt, echt waar maar het zit in jezelf!
: whispering again]
All I need is one mic.. 
All I need is one mic.. 
All I need is one mic..  all I need
All I need is one mic.. 
ALL I NEED IS ONE LIFE, ONE TRY, ONE BREATH I'M ONE MAN
WHAT I STAND FOR SPEAKS FOR ITSELF, THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND
Or wanna see me on top, too egotistical
Talkin all that slick stuff, my name is political
Wonder what my secrets is, enemies'll move on you
only if they know, what your weakness is I have none
Too late; I'm mad done, I'm blastin cause I'm a cool brother
Thought I wouldn't have that ass done?  Fooled you brothers
What you call a infinite brawl, eternal souls clashin
War gets deep, some beef is everlastin
Complete with thick scars, brothers knifin each other
up in prison yards, drama, where does it start?
You know the block was ill as a youngster
Every night it was like a,  would get killed body found in the dumpster
For real a hustler, purchased my Range, people throwin dirt on my name
Jealous cause fiends got they work and complain
Women left me cause they thought I was finished
Shoulda knew she wasn't true she came to me when her man caught a sentence
Diamonds are blindin, I never make the same mistakes
Movin with a change of pace, lighter load, see now the king is straight
Swellin my melon cause none of these brothers real
Heard he was, tellin police, how can a kingpin squeal?
This is crazy, I'm on the right track I'm finally found
You need some soul searchin, the time is now
All I need is one mic.. yeah, yeah yeah yeah
All I need is one mic.. that's all I ever needed in this world, cash
All I need is one mic.. the cars, the jewelry
All I need is one mic.. to spread my voice to the whole world
__SEPERATE__
In my darkest days lighting up the rightous smoke
Cause I'm dealing with this thug life crisis and cant cope
Niggas on my dick beef don't stop
Niggas asking what happed to the Firm
Did you and AZ bone Fox? No
How was it working with Dre though?
Heard you was fucking Lil Kim and Mary J, Whoa , the list goes on
There is rumors that Brandy broke my heart
The world want to know what's in the life of the prettiest Don
Nas, was Jay fucking with your baby mom's?
Was she involved with a plot, to deceive my perfect degrees of
Three hundred and sixty, he ugly she pretty that's life
Never been married eloped with dope; Music's my wife
It's true, me and 2 PAC once steped to each other
Confronted our like's and dislike's in front of Suge Knight, we left it as brothers
As a child pop's blew his weed in my face, results, mixing ether with base
I'm the rebel to America, less is the nasal voice chipped tooth bastard
What your hearing is a replica
I never had a clue, that all you dudes should be in dresses
Double edges playing both sides of the fences
Where my soul going to go when my ditch is dug?
One never knows do one
The things that I've seen in the streets I'm from
One never knows do one
The stuff that I've done what I've become
One never knows do one
Am I crazy what they make me out to be or what?
One never knows...
The streets say what up wit Lake, not showin his face
And did he really shoot at the Jake's?
When he just came home, and dude shot at Capone, for his necklace
Why was Lake name mentioned?
Was he reppin on the island taking phone time?
Did he get Prodigy his chain back in "99"?
Who's writing his rhymes? He is
Do he be with Kingpin like Delson and Jesus, What was he thinking?
On Revolutionary Warfare when he said, He's a modern day Hitler
Did he shoot more niggas, Than every dude in QueensBridge?
Why his last case made the daily news in June?
Do he have the strength to unify heads from BX to Harlem?
Who did he stomp and walk naked in his Projects?
Did he get shot in his chest, never fall with no vest on shoot duke and walk off
 A yo these niggas don't understand me
 There's going to be a murder my reason insanity
 The acts in the involvement with a homicide Nas
 Who did you shoot at the time when you could've got robbed?
 Do you call yourself a prophet of God?
 Did your hood set fire to your car in your project's in '95'?
 Did Jungle shoot up the club lately?
 Did Jungle kidnap Philly's Most Wanted, then they drove him to his safety?
 Yo, what happened to Puffy and Steve Stoute?
 Why did they scuffle with champane bottles smashing, what was it about?
 My video nailed to the cross
 Now Stoute started hating me, hanging with my enemies
 They ask everyday on my block
 How did I survive in ? by keeping it gangsta, why Nas
 Did you leave a clothes company after you made it millions?
 Cause Esco's weak I start a new line a ILL one
__SEPERATE__
In the Rotten Apple, take a bite taste the worm
Embrace the world of reality we're faced to learn
Coke connection drug bust, graveyards where thugs rest
I keep my mug blessed, the evil is illegal substance sold
Roll mob deep, guns in the black Jeep
Mac-11's and legends, cracks in the streets
Patroller, gold money-folder, gun happy soldiers
Never sober takin over, my blood is colder
Niggaz respect violence so I become it
I'm from it, I even done it blunted so run it
Yeah son, you know what this is
Take it off 
Imagine this, no guns no knife
It's a one on one so now we gots to fight, son
Imagine this, no gun no knife
It's a one on one now we got to fight, yeah
Imagine that, no gun no knife
It's a one on one now we got to fight, yeah
Imagine this, no gun no knife
It's a one on one, son
Yo I'm a cream fiend, with a mean dream
Brain full of schemes, my crew's rollin fresh out the greens
Give you what you never seen, the ips on the Mac-10
It's 2:10 in the A.M. in the streets of Queens
Try hard and die hard
Chances of survivin the game is like tryin to feed Allah lard
A walk a piece with a deadly shadow
They want to blow me with the double barrel, found no sorrow
I brawl with Blanka, caught Bison in a thinker
Don't make hell your new home, with the blue chrome
Mistakes want me, sauve fellow but raunchy
The soul of a cold body haunts me, I flee the country
But only to shed tears for years
Too wild for my own self, hopin help is near
Street Fightin was cool but in school I brought a new tool
Toolin with the devil, a rebel, a fool
Imagine this no guns no knife
Just a one on one where we got to fight, yeah
Imagine this no gun no knife
Just a one on one where we got to fight, yeah
Imagine this no gun no knife
Just a one on one where we got to fight, yeah
Imagine this no gun no knife
Just a one on one, a one on one
Yeah, take it to the bridge - Queensbridge
Yo whassup money? 
 
I hear Jake walkie-talkies in my sleep
Marked money I keep, play the bitches all week
I visualize Coups, alligators in suits
Elevators in my mansion that rises to the roof
Sippin eighty proof, watchin Juice, but hold up
I see some brothers tryin to roll up, wishin I could fold up
It's hard to see their faces in they hoodies, I better boogie
Too late, I tried to swing when they jigged me, I'm out...
Yeah yeah kid, don't front, 360 degrees, knowhatI'msayin?
That's how it comes back at you. Queensbridge, that's how we live.
South side, all that. New York, light it up, light it up.
Yo yo you saw how I snuffed that kid? 
You know how we steppin. That's how we do out here in the street fight
__SEPERATE__
Yeah, it's Illmatic 
It's Illmatic 
It's Illmatic, huh
  One time 4 your mind, one time
 Yeah whatever
  One time 4 your mind, one time
 Yo whatever
  One time 4 your mind, one time
Aiyyo Nas  kick that fuckin rhyme
Check it out
When I'm chillin, I grab the buddha, get my crew to buy beers
And watch a flick, illin and root for the villian, huh
Plus every morning, I go out and love it sort of chilly
Then I send a shorty from my block to the store for Phillies
After being blessed by the herb's essence
I'm back to my rest, ten minutes some odd seconds
That's where I got the honey at, spends the night for sexing
Cheap lubrication, Lifestyle protection
Picking up my stereo's remote control quickly
Ron G's in the cassette deck, rockin the shit, G
I try to stay mellow, rock, well acapella rhymes'll
make me richer than a slipper made Cinderella fella
Go get your crew, Hobbes, I'm prepared to bomb troops
Got niggaz who's born, I shot my way out my Mom Dukes
When I was ten, I was a hip-hoppin shorty wop
Known for rocking microphones and twisting off a 40 top, yeah
  One time 4 your mind, one time
 Yeah whatever
  One time 4 your mind, one time
 It sound clever
  Hey yo Nas, fuck that, man that shit was fat
But kick that for them gangstas man, fuck all that
Right, right, what up niggaz, how y'all, it's Nasty the villian
I'm still writin rhymes but besides that I'm chillin
I'm trying to get this money, God, you know the hard times, kid
Shit, cold be starvin make you wanna do crimes kid
But I'ma lamp, cuz a crime couldn't beat a rhyme
Niggaz catching 3 to 9's, Muslims yelling free the mind
And I'm from Queensbridge, been to many places
as a kid when I would say that out of town, niggaz chased us
But now I know the time, got a older mind
Plus control a nine, fine, see now I represent mine
I'm new on the rap scene, brothers never heard of me
Yet I'm a meance, yo, police wanna murder me
Heine Dark drinker, represent the thinker
My pen rides the paper, it even has blinkers
Think I'll dim the lights then inhale, it stimulates
Floating like I'm on the North 95 Interstate
Never plan to stop, when I write my hand is hot
And expand alot from the Wiz to Camelot
The parlayer, I'll make ya heads bop Pah
I shine a light on perpetrators like a cop's car
From day to night, I play the mic and you'll thank God
I wreck shit so much, the microphone'll need a paint job
My brain is incarcerated
Live at any jam, I couldn't count all the parks I raided
I hold a Mac-11, and attack the Reverand
I contact 11 L's and max in heaven
  Yo, one time 4 your mind, one time
 It sound clever
  But one time 4 your mind, one time
 Yeah whatever
  One time 4 your mind, one time
 Yo, from ninety-two to ninety-nine
 Yeah that shit was greasy fat Paul, knowhatI'msayin?
But check it, you gotta another verse for me
I want you to kick it, youknowhatI'msayin?
Kick that shit from the projects...
__SEPERATE__
I wouldn't marry a black woman here's the reason why
Black women's evil, do things on the sly
You look for your supper to be good and hot
She never put the neck bone in the pot
She's on the road again
Lord, a natural-born eastman
She's on the road again
Lord, a natural-born eastman
I went to my window, my window was propped
I went to my door, my door was locked
I stepped right back, I shook my head
A big black nigga's in my folding bed
I shot through the window, I broke the glass
I never seen a little nigga run so fast
He's on the road again
Lord, a natural-born eastman
He's on the road again
God, a natural-born eastman
Your friend at your house just to rest his hat
Next thing he wanna know where your husband's at
She says "I don't know he's on his way to the pen"
Come on mama, let's get on the road again
She's on the road again
Lord, a natural-born eastman
He's on the road again
Lord, a natural-born eastman
I'm with my black woman let me tell you
Black women's evil, do things on the sly
You look for your supper to be good and hot
She never put the neck bone in the pot
She's on the road again
Lord, a natural-born eastman
She's on the road again
Lord, a natural-born eastman
Yeah!
Uh-huh
Yeah
__SEPERATE__
Oh yeah mutha fucka that's that shit
Oh come on
Ladies make it hot
Thugs make it hot make it pop
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang,
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang,
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang,
oo-chie wally wally
He really really work my body
He really really turned me out
He really really got to gut me
He really really made me scream and shout
He really taught me how to work my body
He really taught me how to go down south
He really really tried to hurt me hurt me
I really love thug and gangsta style
Yo we got chicks in the living room 
Getting it on and they leaving till 6 in the morning
Always for oochie
Oh you ain't know
How many hoes in the bankroll
Sort of like like the game show
Who wants to be a millionaire 
But my name ain't Regis 
Nas the one they call 
When they want there thing beat up
Honeys' with bodies 
With Bravehearts guns in the party
Waves, braids, and boldly,
Trademarks to army
Is that Horse it must be
I heard he husky
Yeah, there go jungle eyes red 
Looking for trouble
And that's Nas dancing with dimes
But who's his manage
The imperial thug
Is cold deep grand wiz 
We taking honeys' to the crib tonite
Grantee we going up in there rib tonite
Check the new slang
It's changed the braveheart gang bang
When you see me pass
Holla oochie bang bang   
Yeah what up ma, 
take a look, you hypnotized
on how my long dick stretch your insides
for real ma, with your thick lips and thick thighs
stoke both holes, pass it to Nas
or pass it to Naish, or pass it to Jung
or pass it to Horse, then that ass gettin tossed
fuck a hustler book, penthouse or blacktale
i got bitches sendin my niggas flicks in jail
i fuck a bitch face more than her waist for real
and aint no pussy like new pussy thats how a nigga feel
bust three times throw her the peace sign
she sleep then my dick sleek and I aint gotta call her for weeks
Long leg hoes, mo'head hoes, married bitches
Me and my dog - fuckin them both they got us switchin 
Is the nigga gangsta?  Yeah, that's how I'm livin
That's how I'm playin - I got these freak fuckin hoes singin
Little young thing go around my dick with your tongue ring
Deep throat my nine inch, gut from the front and
grind from the side and, fuck from behind and
Grab her hair slap her ass, she screamin like she dyin
Make her come four times without even tryin
I'll beat that pussy up there's no denyin
Hit her where she doodie at, make that booty fat
Little cutie rat, walking by with the doobie wrap
Tight blue jeans, air max
Small gucci bag
No loot and no job
Stay home giving blow jobs
Like no prob, it's simple
Holla out the window it's the project nympho
Fuck my whole crew, you know how we do
you got that good pussy I can share with my peoples
Be a brave girl, do your thang
Let them tities hang, I'll have all the bitches sayin
When it comes to sex I'm similar to the thriller in manilla
Bitches call me Horse the pussy filler
I'll fuck a big boned or slim chick
Beat that pussy up real quick then send home the bitch
Aint no sleepin in my bedroom
When henny's in my dick
When Flex drop the bomb i bust a nut on this bitch
Deep throat, ceaser gold or pun wicked hoes
Who like the way i thug and the way i flow
I like head in the Benz, the four door or the Coupe
Head in the staircase, the cellar or the roof
Head in the studio, the bathroom or the booth
Head from a project chick or one with crazy loot
Like Nia Lomg in a cherry thong with the lights on
Sippin Perignon with Kelly Price on
I pull out my python, I hit it while my wife's gone
Long dick the bitch all night, I'll make her pussy sing the song
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang
oo-chie wally wally, oo-chie bang bang
oo-chie wally wally
__SEPERATE__
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkontê
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kiye
Ni kêra môgô
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkontê
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kagni
Ni kêra môgô
Some of the smartest dummies
Can't read the language of Egyptian mummies
An' a flag on a moon
And can't find food for the starving tummies
Pay no mind to the youths
Cause it's not like the future depends on it
But save the animals in the zoo
Cause the chimpanzee dem a make big money
This is how the media pillages
On the TV the picture is
Savages in villages
And the scientist still can't explain the pyramids, huh
Evangelists making a living on the videos of ribs of the little kids
Stereotyping the image of the images
And this is what the image is
You buy a khaki pants
And all of a sudden you say a Indiana Jones
An' a thief out gold and thief out the scrolls and even the buried bones
Some of the worst paparazzis I've ever seen and I ever known
Put the worst on display so the world can see
And that's all they will ever show
So the ones in the West
Will never move East
And feel like they could be at home
Dem get tricked by the beast
But a where dem ago flee when the monster is fully grown?
Solomonic linage whe dem still can't defeat and them coulda never clone
My spiritual DNA that print in my soul and I will forever Own Lord
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkontê
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kiye
Ni kêra môgô
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkontê
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kagni
Ni kêra môgô
Huh, we born not knowing, are we born knowing all?
We growing wiser, are we just growing tall?
Can you read thoughts? can you read palms?
Huh, can you predict the future? can you see storms, coming?
The Earth was flat if you went too far you would fall off
Now the Earth is round
If the shape change again everybody woulda start laugh
The average man can't prove of most of the things
That he chooses to speak of
And still won't research and find out
The root of the truth that you seek of
Scholars teach in Universities and claim that they're smart and cunning
Tell them find a cure when we sneeze
And that's when their nose start running
And the rich get stitched up, when we get cut
Man a heal dem broken bones in the bush with the wet mud
Can you read signs? can you read stars?
Can you make peace? can you fight war?
Can you milk cows, even though you drive cars? huh
Can you survive? Against all odds, now?
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkontê
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kiye
Ni kêra môgô
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, yonkontê
Sabali, Sabali, Sabali, kagni
Ni kêra môgô
Who wrote the Bible? Who wrote the Qur'an?
And was it a lightning storm
That gave birth to the Earth
And then dinosaurs were born? damn
Who made up words? Who made up numbers?
And what kind of spell is mankind under?
Everything on the planet we preserve and can it
Microwaved it and try it
No matter what we'll survive it
What's hue? What's man? What's human?
Anything along the land we consuming
Eatin', deletin', ruin
Trying to get paper
Gotta have land, gotta have acres
So I can sit back like Jack Nicholson
Watch niggas play the game like the Lakers
In a world full of 52 fakers
Gypsies, seances, mystical prayers
You superstitious? throw salt over your shoulders
Make a wish for the day cuz
Like somebody got a doll of me
Stickin' needles in my arteries
But I can't feel it
Sometimes it's like 'part of me, but I got a real big spirit'
I'm fearless.... I'm fearless
Don't you try and grab hold of my soul
It's like a military soldier since seven years old
I held real dead bodies in my arms
Felt their body turn cold, oh
Why we born in the first place
If this is how we gotta go?
Damn
__SEPERATE__
Nasir bin Olu Dara bis do Allah
Fist full of dollars in a dice game god
D & D glass cloth Kangols guided by angel with white wings
Nas the Viking fresh from my ankles thankful
Gangster see gangster do I'm Langston Hughes predecessor
Gun on my dresser slang I use upset college professor
More knowledge than Webster dictionary obituary column plus sign 'em
The first fake rapper murdered for rhyming
The jig is up gut 'em like fish swiss cheese 'em up
My wrist is freezing up sick of these ducks on my hiatus
Poking out their chest like they tall as sky scrapers
But they small as a shanty in a African village
Soft as cotton candy we assassins and killers
Let shottie off in club floors pellets spraying your familia
You screaming like you love war
Everybody's crazy
Somebody's gonna get shot get rob get done get stomp get drop
Ladies love thugs and my thug love hip hop
Thugs love ladies and ladies they love hip hop
Peace fuck you with a fist in your ass
You pussy with yeast, you shook of the streets, you a Sisqó fag
You know blood baths I makes 'em fake thugs I hate 'em
8 slug I'm bustin' no discussion or waiting
Cause now Instead of coke rhymes it's laying
No analog it's digital criminals turned rapper times is changing
Niggas get flashier houses more plusher
Bitches giving ass up at ages more younger
Hands on the clock keep turning, hands on a Glock they keep squeezing
Bullets stop in your sternum they stop you from breathing
I'm light year far your mouth get all white
When I'm near you I frighten your heart
I want you to watch me notice stare look closely
Feel I'm who you posed to be real I know it hurts you
Soldiers approach you, you want to squash it, you older than most dudes
Although Nas did you and your whole crew, but
I know where niggas sleep; it's too many schemes too many plots
War plus money man I got too many spots
Hungry niggas get tutored to thinking new shit to come up
Killers fuck with killers you sleeping you getting stuck up
Not me your not ready I'm low but I be watching
We all connected so your man know my man
Your man knows my fam' they was cool when they was locked up
Beat cases and now niggas back on the block what
Bothers is taking secret routes when they drive
Tinted windows ears to the street stay on their job
Peep niggas that got prices on their head so high
Their own my will take the contract surprise
So we play a mental game intimidation
Got pussy niggas get pressed up on and paying
I wish these niggas would step up wait for the day an
Since I'm famous they thinking assault rifles won't be spraying
Who ever thinking coming to my vault for the safe
I got some niggas with acid get it thrown in your face
Play dirty catch your moms in J-30
Whatever whodie we all crazy we all 7:30 now
__SEPERATE__
Uh, light somethin', 
stop frontin' 
how much money's enough, think maybe like a trillion' figures 
pray my daughter don't wild like them Hilton sisters, 
that'd kill me yo, filthy rich, my daughter pass it onto the next generation, 
throwin' carnations 
at my tombstone, 
in my new home, 
meet mom's in my east st. laurent suit on, 
then we do a dance like my man 
luther dan, 
but my verse came first, 
i stole change out her purse, 
now i wanna dig her up outta the earth, 
two more but lean forward, toward a new paragraph, 
blue carrots, D-class, 
strictly that Kush in the weed bags, 
tryna' figure out what Barry Gordie  had, 
put in production, 
studio's smokey now, hard like Davin Ruffin, 
hit a spliff through a seance, 
and I, play on playa 
 
Finest females, i spit game on, i spray tha, gotta' get your papes on, playa on playa,
before it's all gone, sip don, tip weight up, do y'all thing when i swing, baby,
spend dub's on yeh rugs, gotta' live crazy, 
finest females, i spit game on, i spray tha, get your papes on,
playa on playa, get your papes on, play on playa, get your papes on..uh 
Ruby red grapefruit juice 
with grey goose, 
rubies in the Jesus 
piece, 
pimped out like Snoopy, 
but a East Coast thing, 
my girl's stocking, 
tied up in a knot top a' my beanhead, 
billion dollar dream head, 
went from triple beams to digitals, 
servin' fiends to minimal, 
sixty g's no criminal, 
no mo', 
jus mo' doe, 
my motions pouring, 
Oprah's earrings, 
on fingers while your girl performs cunning lingas, 
cause' there's big money a rumour lingers, 
barber cleans his blade, 
then they give me a fade, 
hot towel on the face, 
hot models who vommit after they eat so they can stay lightweight,
swallowin' my protein like an ovaltine shake, 
come thru' like mo green from Godfather, 
so clean where i step i 'Clorox it', 
keep twenty g's on both sides of the thighs, 
that's four pockets, eighty thousand, browse for the nicest price, 
but we ain't into buyin' conflict ice, 
that's the shit they stole from the Congo, 
and other block soil, 
true mack foil, 
nappy hair jus spinnin', 
hunny gave me a massage with the happy ending, 
finest females i jus came on, 
and sprayed uh, gotta get yeh papes on, play on playa 
It's kinda hard for a playa like you, 
but let me show you how a nigga like me, get revenue, 
what ya never do 
is punk out whatchu better do, 
never let the game get ahead of you, 
get a better view, 
better yet, a better clue, 
praise God, imma marry you, 
get your hoe to, carry you, 
bury you, 
slowly, roll me another blunt, 
stuff it, 
lick it, 
puff it, 
tuck it, 
fuck it, 
that man, 
that game, 
that thang 
it busts, 
in D.O Double G we trust! 
yup, yup, young roll with the two steps, 
he creepin' with tha two tec's, 
they sleepin' with two chicks, 
right before we blast all you heard was two clicks, 
end of existence, 
for instance, 
rewind, 
replay it, 
re-chop it, 
remix it, 
we twist it, 
goddamn D.O Double G, cuz we missed it, 
travel slow, 
im an indian, but not a navajo, i 
smoke the big leaf 
end all the big beefs, 
my hair in two braid's, im the big chief, 
ladda da' beep bah baddda! 
yeah, break that down, how fresh yeh are, 
the king from Queens, Mr.Escobar, 
connect with the best from the west, yes yes, yah are, 
oh my god, it's Snoop Dogg and Nas, 
playa play on, play on, play on,  play on, play on, play on
__SEPERATE__
To My Nigga who brought me in this world
Taught us right Nigga
My old dad imported to the family structure
Provide her God
My moms a queen at university civaliza
My pops maybe was late but always came home
My moms would put us to bed and she would wait on
Soon as he walk in the door she barking
I turned out the Jonny Carson
Jumped out the bed
We grabbed both his legs
Me and my brother
Not knowing the pain he gave my mother
Night after night, fighting yelling at each other
My papa played the street all day
Mama was either home, at work, while we played inside the hall way
She sacrifices all she got to feed us
When she was alone she cried by the phone pepping out the window heeding
But still I didn't see it
Mama hid it from us
We was kids younger
Till we got bigger, on to
Bigger things that we knew what the time was
That daddy was leaving the crib and moms love
Papa was player, player wasn't papa 
Papa loved the ladies
Never got enough of
Pretty brown round
Running round town 
Don't tell your mother what's going down
So many kids I knew, never knew what Pap was
That's why I show my pop love
He was still around when I fucked up
He could have left
My moms pregnant shock to death but stayed
Watch me crawl till I took my first step, to the first grade
To my first fist fight
Right behind me he would stand
No matter how big or tall he made me fight you like a man
Throw dirt in your eye, swing my right scoop your ass and slam 
He watched me so I wouldn't get jumped by shorty's fam
Roaches and weed all over my crib him and moms relaxing
Next thing you know he packing
So then I asked him
What's this white shit on that plate and your facing?
Papa why you butt ass from the waist
And who's this lady I'm facing
Dark skin you're not my mommy
He grabbed me up to run some smooth words by me
Promise things that he would buy me
If I kept my mouth close and don't tell mommy
He said one day I'll understand little me
Was in you to side me
Papa was player, player wasn't papa 
Papa loved the ladies
Never got enough of
Pretty brown round
Running round town 
Don't tell your mother what's going down
Pop's told me hold my own
Pop's told me value home
Could I help it papa was a rolling stone
Who loved the pretty brown round
Out of town bound 
Jumping in his jazz Benz he touring
At home I play his latest recordings
And it's strange now how, I do my thing now
I'm in the game now
And heard of it his brain pow
To pull strings and gain power
From weed habits are same now
No white lines to trumpets to tight rhymes
And beats that be pumping
Before he left he taught me something
A child's young years the most important time to be there
That's why he stayed till we grew up, respect is still here
I'm older now see what having a father's about
One day they can be in your life next day they be out
It's not because of you, you know the deal
Him and your moms feel
If they stay together then someone will get killed
I love you still
Always will
Cause that's my nigga
Although you felt you was wrong
I still feel you kid
Life gose on
__SEPERATE__
Ayo I hit the Earth like a comet, Invasion
Nas is like the afrocentric asian
Right here with the amazing Green Lantern
Serious radio, y'all know what it is
Nas too real, Nas true king
You know the king
Cars with police radars on highways bopping
Ballpen therapy, cell block dodging
Pissy stairways, miss them days not
When they shut down the stores when I'm shopping
Used to be pop locking train hopping
Face covered in stocking
6 pack bud drinking gambler
Fuck the camera's in front of the man sing hustla's mantra
The hands of luck
More hits than gamble & huff
Or holland & dozier 40 belows cover the toes I was a soldier
With the pop eye sipping the malta
Nigga honestly I call this a culture
My sisters a snake
My brothers a vulture
My mothers the block my fathers a ghetto piranha
Swimming with sharks my tone is falsetto drama, Obama
If the kids mirror you, we'll all push Maserati's with the silver u
They fear that connection,
I'd rather die in a box than live safe in witness protection
Gotti was a racist but he still get praises
We don't give a fuck, nigga gangsta is gangsta
Bricks come with Bill Clintons name on it, taped up
Hollywood Lohan parties, people they face numb
Kim Kardashian, body with the waist slim
Know some hood girls who did time could take them
Rappers changing families
Fags are all lost, I'm at the Waldorf
Van Cleef under the sleeve, save your smalltalk
I feel alive, new Porsche's Jordan number 5's
Already said I'm the last real nigga alive
Nas, let my words guide you
From crips to piru this is survival
Turn my voice up
Let my words guide you
From crips to piru this is survival
Invasion!
__SEPERATE__
This is my openin scripture - I've been preparin this album
my whole life, might be uncomfortable for most you listeners
Satin's bombardin me with propositions, but I decline
I started in the Bridge without a pot to piss in
I overcame all the opposition
My teachers told that I'd a broken mayne on a cot in prison
Cloaked in the finest drapes, not bathe in napes
But we still filthy, Supreme Court say we still guilty
This is the Genesis, and I don't even see a worthy arch nemesis
I get loose like the Jena Six, they put a noose on 'Pac
now I'm defendin Vic, and free that nigger TIP
I'd take the grave or a bid
to let some dirty clan members run up in my crib
and plant cracks on the man that's goin to church
Plants packs on the man that's goin to work
and build cases, meanwhile they daddies and they brothers
is recruitin all my brothers and cousins to fill bases
The nerve of y'all to call Escobar racist
Nigger, nigger, nigger, nigger, nigger, nigger hatred
__SEPERATE__
It is absolutely silly, and unproductive 
to have a funeral for the word "nigger"
When the actions continue..
We need to have a movement to resurrect brothers, and sisters 
Not a funeral for niggers
'cause niggers - DON'T DIE 
Uh, yeah..
Yo, I'm creepy and crawlin, in your sink and your toilet
I be drinkin from your spit, anything 'cause I'm all less
An insect with four legs; people come in, I fake dead
Correction: I got eight legs, climbin on top yo' plate, bed
Wherever I smell food, it could be even jail food
Stale food that's molded, a roach is what I am, fool
The ghetto is my land, fool, I'ma never be able to
fly like a bumblebee, try not, to be underneath
your sneaker, pitiful creature, I'm not afraid of
your pesticide or RAID 'cause, in heaven's my Creator
I love it when the light's off, eatin from same knives, forks
from, ANY man's dinner, see my antennas
You can't win, you can't stand the crunchy sound I make
if you squash me, learn to live with me
How much your Ross Motel costin? Yo, we in the city
But yo, we everywhere! Check your house good, I bet we there! 
LOOK HEED!
Niggers are like roaches - they're never gonna go away
Learn from them what we should not become
'cause niggers - DON'T DIE
__SEPERATE__
Black hoods, cops 'n projects
sewers flooded with foul blockage
The gutter's wild and every child watches
Changin top locks with ripped off hinges
doors kicked off, drunks stag off smirnoff, wipe your beard off
Crippled dope fiends in wheelchairs stare
vision blurry, cus buried deep in they mind are hidden stories
Bet he's a mirror image of that 70's era
finished for the rest of his life, till he fades out
The liquor store workers miss him but then it plays out
so many ways out the hood but no signs say out
Mental slavehouse where gats go off, I show off
niggas up north, prison-ology talk, till they time cut off
You should chill if you short, prepare deep thought
to hit the street again, get it on, get this paper and breathe again
Plan to leave somethin' behind
so your name'll live on, no matter what the game lives on
Lookin' out of my project window
Oh, I feel uninspired
Lookin' out of my project window
Oh, it makes me feel, so tired
Yo, if this piano's the cake then my words are the candles
Light it up, make a wish, and them angels will grant you
Impatient once tried, but in those angels and bamboo
they lit it up, *puff* *puff*, hit it up, *puff*
Now they dismantled, think the whole world is crazy, got a 9
watch where you walk, 2 dollar fine, sign of the times here in New York
Hi Satan, United Nations quietly taken, to own your soul
take it or leave it, just my evaluation
Stack loot and guns, teach the girls karate, school your sons not to hate
but to stay awake, cus the scars a razor make is nothin' in comparison
to the gas left on this whole mass, if we don't get it controlled fast
might as well be, laughin' with Malcolm X's assassin as we die slow
perishin', brain dead from a Erickson
Words are the medicine, two teaspoons for goons
a cup of it for those thuggin' it, y'all sing the tune
Another day, another dollar, my mother will holla
She said "go and see the world for myself, and my brother Shafala"
Pops was smooth, from his top to his shoes
sang the rules, guitar strings he played smokin' his ?
? hat, picture this yo, seventies cat
He wrote his music in the back of the crib, I did my homework
At night the windows were speakers, pumpin' life out
a fight, people screamin' cus somebody pulled a knife out
So I look at this poem, I'm hooked to this tune
every night the same melody, hell sounded so heavenly
But jail was ahead of me, ??
Reading's what I should've done, cus my imagination would run
I was impatient to get out and become part of the noise out there
I used to stare, five stories down, basketball courts, shot up playgrounds
and I witnessed the murders and police shake-downs
Yo, the hustlas and hoes, drugs and fo-fos
This was the life of every kid, lookin' out project windows
Oh, outta my window
Lookin' out of my project window
Oh, it makes me feel, so tired
Lookin' out of my project window
Oh, I feel uninspired
Lookin' out of my project window
Oh, it makes me feel, so tired
Lookin' out of my project window
Oh, I feel uninspired
Starin out of, of my window
Oh I, feel so tired
Oh yeah, outta my window
Oh, lookin' out, lookin' out
Lookin' out my window, oh yeah
Makes me, feel so tired
Outta my window, out my project window
Lord I feel, uninspired
__SEPERATE__
Light it, uhh
Light it up, uhh
The whole, city is mine, prettiest Don
I don't like the way P. Diddy did Shyne with different lawyers
Why it's mentioned in my rhymes?  Fuck it, it's just an intro
Hate it or love it, like it bump it or dump it
Writing, across the stomach spell GOD son
Life is like a jungle black it's like the habitat of Tarzan
Matter of fact, it's harder than most can imagine
Most of my niggaz packed in correctional facilities
Half of them passed on, mack strong, couple of shots
May the ghost leave a body, now they hauntin the block
Where they used to stand at, somebody's takin they place
A younger man perhaps, hand slaps, can't understand that
Same walk, same talk, I wonder can that be possible
A thug dies, another step inside his shoes
And they will hurt you, layin low with a bottle
I'm blowin circles, my state of mind purple
Light it, light it, uhh
Yeah.. light it up, light it up, uhh
Y'all just wanna deal with drama
Talk about niggaz who got things, y'all ready to kill his momma
Everything you went to is underworld related
You sell your man out, not even your girl is sacred
You don't trust a soul, hold up, you moldin soldiers
to pull guns quick and always look behind the shoulder
Think of how many dudes died tryin to be down with you
Everybody's under six feet of ground but you
Still standin, still roamin through the streets, that's real
You a survivor, knowin all the beef is ill
You got a bunch of thugs witchu even now that's ready
Trustin your judgment, quick to put it down, they deadly
The hood love you but behind your back they pray for the day
A bullet hit your heart and ambulances take you away
That ain't love it's hate, think of all the mothers at wakes
whose sons you killed, and you ain't got a cut on your face?
Unmarked police cars roam the streets hard, the heat is God
Somebody tell these shorties reach for the stars
Instead they tell 'em how to reach through the bars, holdin a mirror
Lookin down a tear in jail, makin weapons to kill ya
We smoke three tokes nigga pour more Henny
He sighs with eyes that seen a war too many
Cold-blooded murderers, universal
Hood to hood, blowin smoke, state of mind is purple
Light it up, light it up light it up, uhh
Light it up.. light it up, light it up, uhh
Uhh.. uhh, uhh, light it, light it, uhh
These hot-headed youngsters, always get into trouble
Reactin before thinkin, they easily irritated
And murder's premeditated, it's a fact that we sinkin
when we should be climbin, in a nutshell, it's just jail
Drug sales, liquor and diamonds, niggaz rewindin
instead of movin forward, to blow up so what's the science?
People shoutin, police pushin the crowd
And on the ground's a young soldier, with meat hangin out him
Am I hallucinatin off the hazin?
Or did I just see a nigga shoot another nigga's face in
It's a ugly nation, cops circle the block with mug shots
Photograph pictures of, suspect faces
It's usually, two or three niggaz who innocent
But if they lock the wrong ones up, then someone'll snitch
A divide and fall strategy, they aren't fair
I dig in my bag of weed that's covered with orange hair
This Color Purple'll make Whoopi give me the pussy
 Oprah and Danny Glover gots to feel me
This is how I escape the madness, too much of anything'll hurt you
So, my state of mind's all purple
__SEPERATE__
Ugh
Crazy
HA 
Yo pussy kill me
Ugh Ugh
Ya ya ya
Huh
Ugh Ugh Ugh
Pussy kill me when I was born 
Pardon me I rephrase it departed mommy wound decayin
I look at the bright side, the fact that I got a life side
Born 73 
True, Virgo child
The first thing I learned is money makes the world go round
On a small planet, its 10 women to 1 man
I wonder how we managed
To say vows and walk a straight line in marriage
Niggas is some nasty creatures, bitches even nastier
They throw it at your boy and it’s hard for me to pass it up
Freaky ho's licken niggas ass and nuts
Stupid bitch bragen till her baby dad went nuts
And now were looking for me, 2 cars deep
Rollin up on niggas
Barrel out da window, Asking 
I can't here dat 2 4 5 nigga grad at
Pass it to me sucker for love niggas I blast at
I swear my dick is gonna get me into trouble, I pissin bubble
I thought I felt a sharp pain betta stick to rubbers
When lain, hooker after hooker down and day
Watch out for diseases, the doctors can't name em
Just a thought we all fuck the same chicks
Some play like they innocent
Fucken entertainers, and basket ball players
The bitch is a ho
But still some of yall il say ya put your dick in her dough
You’re just a nigger that life to her, she thought your crazy
Now your monkey ass want to shoot the pimp that pipes her
She had your baby, now you a lifa
The suicide note you write her
Pussy kills
O what a thrill inside a bitch feel
Gotta be strong and handle, it is real
Pussy killz
Mad shots keep a nigga open
Bitch have a nigga’s gun smoking
pussy killz
My nigga James got married same girl he went to school with
Nice girl, nerd with glasses, he was to stuck
Studied for her masters, part time nurse
I tell you how superb the ass is, but who’s looking
And I mean that’s my man, maybe I just took a peek
Maybe I wondered what it would be like, syke, cause James and me like
I was with A Z like, Luke and Han Solo
Fuckin with niggas girls, forbidden, that’s a no no
It’s death and we’re real niggas civilized guards
And there ain’t to many niggas like Nas I’m trust worthy
Plus I know a dude that caught his wife cheatin
Killed his baby, killed his wife, and took his own life even
Happy for James cause real bitches hard to come by
This nigga found one, I told him he was lucky an clown something
Rollin up duckies while watching Roy Jones in round one
He froze put his to the t.v. about an inch close
Move outa the way nigga what the fuck the matter with you, you blind
He pointed to the front row, thought he was losing his mind
She was supposed to be with her sick mother
Left for the weekend, stress when she was leaving, now she next to some nigga cheesin
He’s having trouble breathing 
He pictured them making noises, grindin em and kissin em
Yellin, ain’t no telling where her lips have bin
Left her foul messages, she came home no lesser then
Ten minutes later and they start wrestling, and screamin
She said she missed her flight that evening
She never left, she wasn’t at the fight u speakin
That’s Vegas this is New York you bugin
I held up my hand for dat, but he wouldn’t touch it
I was like when u started actin like that, this is dumbness
Gave me a crazy look and started swingin punches
I ducked couldn’t believe it, the niggas so wet 
He got his gad and started squeezin, hit two police men
Neighbors dialed 911 they heard the thumpin
Wounded cops kicked in the door and started dumpin
Me and his wife hit to the floor she smelt strange
My comrade was breathing no more they killed James
O what a thrill inside a bitch feel
Gotta be strong and handle, it is real
Pussy killz
Mad shots keep a nigga open
Bitch have a nigga’s gun smoking
pussy killz
__SEPERATE__
Eh yo
Queens get the money
Niggas still screaming
Paper chasing
Where presidential candidates is planning wars with other nations
Over steak with Masons
Pregnant teens give birth to intelligent gangsters
Their daddy's faceless
Play this, by your stomach
Let my words massage it and rub it
I'll be his daddy if there's nobody there to love it
Tell him his name's Nasir
Tell him how he got here
Mama was just having fun with someone above her years
Niggas is still hating
Talking that Nas done fell off with rhyming
He'd rather floss with diamonds
They pray "please God let him spit that Uzi in the army linen
That shorty doo-wop rolling oo-wop in the park reclining"
Take 27 emcee's put them in a line and they're out of alignment
my assignment since he said retirement
hiding behind 8 Mile and The Chronic
Gets rich but dies rhyming
This is hot science
Now add 23 more from Queens to B-more
I've over their heads
Like a bulimic on a seesaw
Now that's 50 porch monkeys ate up at the same time
Nasty Nasdaq
Y'all going to bow holmes, it's Dow Jones
.80 cal chrome
Needed time alone to zone
The mack left his iPhone and his 9 at home
My queen used the milkshake to bring y'all to my slaughter houses
I do this for the group home kids in boarding houses
This is that nigga shit that's on the album
For the niggas inside the chalk line in 40 houses
Bring back Arsenio
Hip-hop was aborted
So Nas breathes life, back into the embryo
Let us make man in our image
Spit it, I'm Huey P in Louis V throwing Molotov for Emmit
You aint as hot as I is
All of these fake prophets are not messiahs
You don't know how high the sky is
The square milage of Earth, or what pi is
I'm the shaky hand that touched Geogre Foreman in Zaire
The same hand that punched down devils that brought down the towers
__SEPERATE__
Where my real niggas at
Theres a lot of real niggas out there
Theres a lot of real niggas everywhere
Thats why you don't fuck with just anybody
A lot of niggas is just on the low, chillin
Not botherin nobody, until one motha fucka fuck with em
And then all hell break loose
]
Quiet niggas will kill
Loud niggas talk shit
Them be the ones that get killed
It's wild where we walk kid
Is you brave nigga
Is you a slave nigga
Is you a made nigga
Or is you a paid nigga
Well known gangstas, in trust
That we bust
Your heart and soul lies with us
Boldly go where we once took a nigga before
Now the motha fucka beggin for more
Its the reason
Standin here shakin, hatin the haters
They watchin my paper
Realize, a 4 5 will open his eyes
Now what the fuck you think he saw before he drop
Nigga standin there just like a cop
Braveheart I'm screamin up the block
Now the soldier, cadet, general in fact
Don't let me get up and show yawl motha fucka's respect
Plans connect
The twinkle and diamonds upon my neck
More jazz than Hornecek
I blast and leave your corner wet
Straight on top of ya
Spittin like the trench coat mafia
In a school yard we make it hard
Was poppin yawl
We made our change was stoppin yawl
They spray your names rest in peace on the ?? wall
]
I wave gang signs at the youth, thats down for the cause
Cling them things in the ?? you betta get yours
Time is runnin out
Your streets is gettin smaller as we speak
Juliani turns these lights on so niggas can't creep
I miss the shit of days we did this
Please free John Gotti
They kept the black man eatin, not killin everybody
Drug wars is real
You have no friends in the outfield
Foul balls is deaf, umpires keep ice grilles
Theres no tomorrow its the bottom of the 9 9
Can't die a broke man with a bitch thats fine
My hearts full of braveness so who the fuck will want to save this
Fallen angel from fallen star and chaos on this nation
Don't play us on your station if you pussy or you hatin
You can find us in the hood; thuggin and regulatin
Don't play us on your station if you pussy or you hatin
You can find us in the hood; thuggin and regulatin
]
We here to eat food, my peoples, be lethal
Shots in your body make you see through
Quiet niggas become jail riot niggas
25 to life, big never cry niggas
Floss when they up north
Chest gettin bigger
Celebs on the V I respect that nigga
Rege on the regular chops is up; like a editor
Come through on man gang like the predator
If yawl wake I'll wet it up
Jungle set it up
The jackal rock you to sleep while I'm comin at you
Air out your area, Queens Bridge forever, what
Ill will the label
Bravehearts yawl scared of us
Yo when those niggas ran these niggas stayed
With these niggas switched up and bitched up afraid
These niggas clicked up and ripped up the gauge
Those niggas got jail and sick cause we paid
Don't even rep Q B
You ain't got hood stripes
Looters come through catch you frontin
And its good night
Know how much force this is
Juggle horse and whiz
Notin but horses kid
We go to war for this
]
__SEPERATE__
This kind of love is a once in a lifetime cruise
Reach out and touch the love that I have for you
I see you standing there so lost and all alone
I wanna take you in my arms
And tell you that you’re home
I look into your eyes
I said I know you very well
I see a mirror of my life
A reflection of myself
3:45 am can’t sleep, can’t dream
I’m stuck, money problems pop up
How will I survive, guess it’s best to decide not to decide
So that’s my decision
Whatever happens happens
I keep makin’ my millions
Can see myself in presidential campaign dinners
But I’m passin’ blunts around a bunch of gang members
When you’re too hood to be in them Hollywood circles
And you’re too rich to be in that hood that birthed you
And you become better than legends you thought were the greatest
And out grow women you love and thought you could stay with
Life become clearer when you wipe down your mirror
And leave notes around for yourself to remember
I like to teach and build
With brothers about how easy it is to reach a mill
All you need is some skill, then it’s grindtime
Imagination better than knowledge, say’s Einstein
It’s all in the mind
Nasty the nicest, I’m somewhat of a psychic
Just one minute after it’s heard
You all excited, you all repeat it
So call me a genius, if you didn’t
Now that I said it I force you to think it
Write in my little vignettes, sipping Moet
When you vision me, you vision the best
When I was young they called me, Olu’s son
Now he Nas father, I was the good seed
He was the wise gardener
Beautiful life, often I dream that I can bring my niggas
Conservatives don’t understand slang linguistics
The burbs talking like the hood’ll change with quickness
Love the skinny model chicks but I prefer the thickness
So what I rap about my riches and I’m ostentatious
Get out of gangsta business seen in me you basic
Try to compare what you live to the life I master
See the fly shit I wear, you try to rock it after
Big bracelets, golden Egyptian faces
White wine spritzers and Switzerland on vacation
The strip club scene favors Josephine Baker
Dope fiend neighbours, growing up I’ve seen paper
I describe it, hope you can visualize it
This is reminiscent to all the parks in the project
When my British Knights, can rival your foamposites
Don’t make me pull my lotto's out the closet
__SEPERATE__
Ill Will...yeah yeah yo...Queensbridge niggas...crud love baby..
Aiyo, I zone out
feelin' like I'm in Capone's house
starin' at Manhattan and The Bridge with the chrome out
Ki's on the table, black tanktop, long cable
thoughts of overtakin' the table
dismantle and disable
verbal, made fatal, what drug paper do
straight duct tapin', apin' a few
takin' Mo' and Henny straight and things loose
puffin' the fruits, thug in a duece
flaggin', pants saggin', fuckin' ya goose
I'm like nothin' to you
dumpin' the Rug' and your group in a red coog'
jump in the Isuzu and cruise
blank tints, bulletproof, red Timb boots
nigga loose, license plate screamin' "Fuck you"
drunken days, I wish ya'll knew
thug dreams, what it means to you
red seams, triple beams
40 inch blings, Ill Will the fuckin' team
this for my niggas in the Bridge from Queens.
Illmatic Ice, Goon, Sonny, and Smitty 
Big Felton, Chick, Petey, and Sarge 
Yambo, Bar, Spank, and Will 
some is here, some died in the field 
Richie, Luke, Arkay, Marty, Tahay 
Rico, Black, Party Rob, and Eighty 
Y.G., Nut, Foul One, and Lord 
Blink, Ice, Cliff, Super nice, and Draws 
Bumpy Johnson style, old timers, crocodile shoes
pinky rings, big rounders with tools, bossin' wild crews
slacks, overlaps, applejack hats quarterfield coats
Cadillacs with white walls and chrome wheel spokes
they were organized, investin', had a piece of the hood
they had drugs, bettin' numbers, police understood
they played the Cotton club, red carpet, hoes on they arm
plush mink, pimped out gangsta, civil rights wasn't won
every Christmas they were Santa Claus, Nichson was the Anti-Christ
bitches asses were bigger then, sniffin' nose candy white
listenin' to Malcolm speak, talcum powder, shaving cream
layin' back, barber chair, straight razor clean
Babies were born, big families started to blossom
mad people just applied for apartments and got 'em
used to be rules to this game of hustlers and dealers
from Tommy guns to MAC Tens it's Q.B.'s newborn killers. 
96 buildings of children, guns, and bad feelings
Q.B. see we rep by the Millions
each block, ten spots, a hundred different villians
in abundance my dunnettes run this drug dealin'
stash the jums in hallway cielings
gangsta paradise, watch the ice, nigga make a killin' 
in the cut on the steps yo gettin' good neck
only in the projects, we die with respect
pussy niggas quiet as kept will riot the set
six blocks of real niggas vexed
assorted irons and vests, stress on they chest
20 half a G's on Henny, Son, the whole hood is wet
in memory of...who's next?
train they set, lend they Teck, earn your check
nigga, you better rep 
real niggas come out the projects
40 to the 41st, Vernon to the 12th. 
Sherm the Worm, High, Papoose 
Black Ed, Killa Black, Wee-Wop 
Body G, Divine, Hot Day 
J.L., Earnie, Q.T. 
Karate Joe, Big Killa, Beefstick 
Lloyd, Floyd, niggas we miss 
Al Womack, Spunk, World, and Fun 
Goodfellas, 40 Busters, Young Guns 
Vernon Posse, Tre Bag, Black Born 
Green Eyes, Small Shan, Duhan 
Peace, Tommy, Ron, Keyshawn 
Herb, Bohound, Crazy 
Jungle, Horse, Wiz, Bravehearts 
Havoc, Prodigy, Mobb Deep 
Killa Kids, Infamous Mobb 
Rambo, Face, Shayquan 
L.E.S., Big Things, Nashawn 
Crime Fam, Ron, Smack, Don, Alawn 
Justice, Understanding, Joe Grimes 
Lou, Frank, John, Hope, Fall Guy 
J-Roc, Bumpy, and Little Black 
the list is gettin' too long for this track 
Gangsta, Gangsta, Gangsta...to all my real niggas from Queensbridge,
from the grave, in a cage, or walkin' on stage doin' they thing gettin'
paid...my Nigga Mr. Ruc who don't give a fuck, 
Queensbridge to the death niggas, 
2001 and so on and so on...
 
My nigga Bowser, my nigga Spank, shoutouts to Sudan, 
QBC's finest, Bing, Crime Fam, Killa Kids, Malik The Hitler, 
Hot Bars, Mo King, shouts to Pop, Wild Gremlins, Germ and Norm, 
let's get it on....
__SEPERATE__
I see people hating other people
Tell me what's the reason
That your kid is hungry, you ain't got no money
What's the reason?
By the time of age nine I'm already decidin'
If I can protect mommy from the hood by fightin'
Or usin' a knife or a gun when I'm twenty-one
By by then them hoods woulda pushed their way in our apartment
And we die then, so I been a young nervous wreck in the projects
Watchin' them older niggaz pass pot and they high man
I'm just a young boy, snot nose, hair nappy
Cops ride by squeezin' their trigger fingers at me
So I would go to school and try to get good grades
Teacher wrote mommy and kicked me outta school for havin' braids
So she cussed them, said "My son ain't no motherfuckin' hoodlum"
They judged us, thinking that we dumb 'cause where we come from
Got a little older and now I see
Young niggaz wanted by the powers that be 
I see people hating other people
Tell me what's the reason
That your kid is hungry, you ain't got no money
What's the reason?
For these wars we're fighting with each other
Season after season
When you're workin' hard, but there ain't nothing comin'
What's the reason?
Uh, picture a Black nanny and a baby in a basket pushin' down 5th Ave
She never had it, it's not hers to begin with
She gives it breakfast, baths and dinners
Treats it so tender while her own kids live alone at home with no phone on
Ain't had a good meal in so long, but so long as mommy's a maid
Cookin' and cleanin', she wanna feed her kids and her kids are dreamin'
Where's my daddy, who's my daddy, have you seen him?
I could imagine them askin', what type of human be-ing
Could leave his family, go back to the Carribean?
Was he locked up, shot up, does he have freedom?
Mom said wipe your tears, keep readin'
But daddy's somewhere, spirit broken, feelin' defeated
A man feels he has to conquer all
The world is his oyster, his pearl so y'all know
I can't find no reason why we can't all live in peace
'Cause this world keeps spinning, yet still I wonder what's the reason
I see people hating other people
Tell me what's the reason
When you're workin' hard but there ain't nothin' comin'
What's the reason?
Oooh-whoa-ooh-whoa
I know a girl, her boyfriend was a fugitive
She's intuitive, be on some stupid shit
She called the cops 'cause she hated his mother
Now he away doin' numbers, now she gay with her lover
How many niggaz gon' die this summer?
I pump life in my music, but still life is a wonder
There's a officer in a squad car, he's a prostitute serial killer
It's odd, huh? 'Cause he's the same cop in church with his wife
He's molestin' his son and she ignores it at night
Little bad ass bastard, lights a match and kills Betty Shabazz
in her pad while she slept
They said Prescott Bush funded Hitler while the world's in a twister
Nigga, what you expect? Imagine what's next
I see people hating other people
Tell me what's the reason
That your kid is hungry, you ain't got no money
What's the reason?
For these wars we're fighting with each other
Season after season
When you're workin' hard, but there ain't nothing comin'
What's the reason?
"Uh, uh, man, man'll search the whole planet, looking for what
Try to conquer all.  So what? To all my niggaz with they
kids that love they kids, man.  All the daddies out there
To all the niggaz that died tryin'a figure out what's what
Tryin'a be the biggest of the big, you know.  Yeah, yeah
Ladies forgive us.  Gotta forgive us.  For we know not what
we do.  Breakin' hearts, leavin' the crib, buggin' out and
shit.  Just man... man."
__SEPERATE__
I think I can remember some...
Brenda the back-bender used to have me in the twister
Grabbed her up and left her at the Buena Vista
Chelsea used to tell me choke her while I stroke her
Stuck a Heineken bottle up in the ass, a real joker
Used to run my bubble bath, tons of laughs, sexy chick
Mad skills, she used to try to eat my excrement
Used to play Atari 1200, baby-sitter made me kiss her
Put hickeys on her stomach
Toya was a tomboy 'til we played catch a screw
Had her out past her curfew, Sheila had this perfume
that drove a nigga wild, was a child then, Gertrude
used to put my face in her crotch
Spun my tongue around in a circle while she watched
Eiserea knew I was a player, brought Fatima, loud screamer
While I blew clouds of reefer, they sucked juice out my uretha
While Marvin Gaye pumped from the speaker
Remember the times I hung with the dimes, remember the times I fucked a few
Remember the times I hung with the dimes, and all the wild things I used to do
Remember the times I hung with the dimes, remember the times I fucked a few
Remembering the times it was on my mind, but none of them could touch you
Was only scared of them STDs, syphilis, VD and herpes
Daffy Duck-lookin' bitch burnt me, correction
Urinary tract infection, what I got for no protection
Was a horny dog, mornings waking up with a log
Dick stuck to my draws, wet dreams in the mind
Of a one-of-a-kind sex fiend, Justine was luscious wanna cuff us when fucked us
Me and her best friend, this thick Texan named Tamika, English teacher
Wedding ring on finger, bent her big ass over the fold-out sofa
The weather was cold and Loretta would throw on nothing but a thong
Under the coat and
Put a show on just to show me she loved me
She would undress and wait in zero below weather
In slippers and a sun dress for me to arrive
Kept a freak in the ride with her head in my lap, the steering wheel's high
Remember the times I hung with the dimes, remember the times I fucked a few
Remember the times I hung with the dimes, and all the wild things I used to do
Remember the times I hung with the dimes, remember the times I fucked a few
Remembering the times it was on my mind, but none of them could touch you
Thank God I got bank god, so fuck pimpin'
Fuck broke condoms, pills and penicillin
Abortion clinics, I was one of the best who did it
Lesbian shit, wheelchair girls and midgets
Twin sisters, cousins, mothers and daughters, some wasn't no quarters
Long chin, some with funny odors
Long blond weaves, overweight, cottage cheese
Some I paid college fees, then they strip tease
And it's sad I don't remember great times that made me drool
And the sex gave me flashbacks when I was like eww
Mature with it now dog, here's the side of Nas
Principles are lined up, things prioritized
Se mamma I left that alone, faded memories, the reason that I'm grown
It'd be senseless for us to lie about our old experiences, no longer
are we tempted
Remember the times I hung with the dimes, remember the times I fucked a few
Remember the times I hung with the dimes, and all the wild things I used to do
Remember the times I hung with the dimes, remember the times I fucked a few
Remembering the times it was on my mind, but none of them could touch you
__SEPERATE__
Represent, represent!! 
Straight up shit is real and any day could be your last in the jungle
Get murdered on the humble, guns'll blast, niggaz tumble
The corners is the hot spot, full of mad criminals
who don't care, guzzlin beers, we all stare
at the out-of-towners    They better break North
before we get the four pounders, and take their face off
The streets is filled with undercovers, homicide chasin brothers
The D.A.'s on the roof, tryin to, watch us and knock us
And killer coppers, even come through in helicopters
I drink a little vodka, spark a L and hold a Glock for
the fronters, wannabe ill niggaz and spot runners
Thinkin it can't happen til I, trap em and clap em
and leave em done, won't even run about Gods
I don't believe in none of that shit, your facts are backwards
Nas is a rebel of the street corner
Pullin a Tec out the dresser, police got me under pressure
Represent, represent!! 
Yo, they call me Nas, I'm not your legal type of fella
Moet drinkin, marijuana smokin street dweller
who's always on the corner, rollin up blessed
When I dress, it's never nuttin less than Guess
Cold be walkin with a bop and my hat turned back
Love committin sins and my friends sell crack
This nigga raps with a razor, keep it under my tongue
The school drop-out, never liked the shit from day one
cause life ain't shit but stress fake niggaz and crab stunts
So I guzzle my Hennesey while pullin on mad blunts
The brutalizer, crew de-sizer, accelerator
The type of nigga who be pissin in your elevator
Somehow the rap game reminds me of the crack game
Used to sport Bally's and Gazelle's with black frames
Now I'm into fat chains, sex and Tecs
Fly new chicKs and new kicks, Heine's and Beck's
Represent, represent!! 
No doubt; see my, stacks are fat, this is what it's about
Before the BDP conflict with MC Shan
Around the time when Shante dissed the Real Roxxane
I used to wake up every mornin, see my crew on the block
Every day's a different plan that had us runnin from cops
If it wasn't hangin out in front of cocaine spots
We was at the candy factory, breakin the locks
Nowadays, I need the green in a flash just like the next man
Fuck a yard God, let me see a hundred grand
Could use a gun Son, but fuck bein the wanted man
but if I hit rock bottom then I'ma be the Son of Sam
Then call the crew to get live too
with Swoop, Hakim, my brother Jungle, Big Bo, cooks up the blow
Mike'll chop it, Mayo, you count the profit
My shit is on the streets, this way the Jakes'll never stop it
It's your brain on drugs, to all fly bitches and thugs
Nuff respect to the projects, I'm ghost, One Love
Represent y'all, represent!! 
One time for your motherfuckin mind
This goes out to everybody in New York
that's livin the real fuckin life
And every projects, all over
To my man, Big Will he's still here 
The 40 side of Vernon
My man Big L.E.S.
Big Cee-Lo from the Don
Shawn Penn, the 40 busters
My crew the shorty busters
The 41st side of Vernon posse
The Goodfellas
My man Cormega, Lakid Kid
Can't forget Drawers, the Hillbillies
My man Slate, Wallethead
Black Jay, Big Oogi
Crazy barrio spot 
We rock shit, Ph.D
And my man Primo, from GangStarr
Fuck y'all crab ass niggaz though...
__SEPERATE__
The rest of my life
The rest of my life
LIFE, dead presidents, devilish meant
Overthrow king thrones just 'cause of their negligence
DEATH, real shit'll start comin' to light
Niggaz you ain't like dickin' your wife, WHAT?
Kind and underminding, grimy, stiff corpse shapin'
Pork bacon, double-cross Satan
HEATHENS, non-god-fearing, lace thong wearing demons
But glory go to God, y'all BENEATH HIM
If y'all don't know that, rap with a old cat
He'll show you streets where them big dealers DROVE AT
Where low-key killers let the fo' clap
Blocka-blocka-blocka -- OH
The glow, the 'dro, the dough for shows
Everything a hood brother thing he needs -- YO
You'll find a goal in a ghetto superstar's roadmap
And I'ma use that for the
For the rest of my life
For the rest of my life
Burnt-out, kicked to the curb
So I had to learn how to turn around a hundred thou' REAL FAST
In '95 that was my last, I went back to the ave thinkin' rap's a thing of the PAST
Rest in peace E Money Bags, no more cabs, got caught with the ratchet in the stash
Lawyer want CASH, my ba'y bro blast burners at cats who gell
They burnt a range with a mollet of COCKTAIL
My little man got fourteen-years for car-jackin' a undercover
Them cops SWEAR, my little nigga told on me
I'm thinkin, "Hello, where's the L-O, V-E"
Pigs play games, my little man'll never say names
Word to his pops with elephant veins
They both locked-up still, word to Will
I'll make it and chill for the
For the rest of my life
For the rest of my life
My man gave his mommy coke
So she wouldn't hit the block all crazy for the smoke
DAMN NIGGA, could you picture you supplyin' your own moms
so she don't have to bone for DIMES?
Or give dome for nicks' in the roofs of the projects
where dogs shit and PISS
Yeah, we all plan to get rich but it's all about how it's executed
Lexus coup-ed, brigettes from cubics
Mighta been stupid, but I got far from twenty-six BARS
To ten LP's, what can him tell me? Of them? Of y'all?
I'M NAS, on a track that's unorthodox
Like my life coulda been offed by THE COPS
Told y'all, Nas will prevail by the book when it's up for sale
About the rest
For the rest of my life
For the rest of my life
__SEPERATE__
uh uh huh, lets go, yeah!
 Uh, ghetto children singing "singing"
 See they eager to learn "uh hum"
 how to become the next world leaders "Bravehearts"!
Revolutionary warfare is all fair loving war for the cause
I gotta take you off here
Revolutionary warfare is all fair loving war for the cause
I gotta take you off here
Book one, strategy, tactics, techniques
Look dumb, but massively notice the weakness, in all them
Gotta shoot only if necessary 
Homey vest is very real if enemies carrying heavy steal
Beware the thugs who ain't scared of blood or jail time
Where Arian nations ain't having integration, we so blind
The beauty of life, was when my mom said nigga you could be Christ
I wasn't old enough to hold my dick and pee right, "Jesus"!
What is he like? I picture him standing with diamonds on him
Little different from the way my mommy saw him
Practice your aiming, physical training in, difficult terrain and
Test your endurance, try to keep your stamina banging
Splitting dutches up, strap up, the armies is school 
Teaching smart ways to kill, I'm thinking Ghandi was a fool
But chronic's a fool; got me thinking out loud, fuck it
Sleep on my drunkenness I'll blow your brains out 
My revolution is as real as Bobby Seale's, I build
With dudes and cribs worth a quarter mill, in dix hills
for fish scale, to cop guns, the time come
I'll mask up and get my comrade off the bus
Fuck the beef I'll snatch your seed, from chuckie cheese 
And feed him to the rats in the back of the P's 
Black fatigues and ? on the sofa
50 inch flat screen Louie Vitton holdsters
My motions don't appeal to repel at divisions
I did it strong for 7 long years in prison, fuck the system
I'm like a modern day Hitler, black gorilla, crip and blood in one nigga
Only killas know my face
I beat a case for shooting at the police, nigga, the name Lake
Though simultaneously the street revolution 
21 gun salute the new Huey Newton 
 Teach y'all women how to hold the family down in case something happens to his fathers
 Protect the children, grab revolvers
 The women plays important part of our life force
 So what we fight for, my heart goes to you beautiful wife in war
 Uh, And listen more talk less
 Watch all and trust none, demand your respect
 And be ready to die for what you believe in
 And ride all the time not just when convenient 
 Justice and freedom, wisdom and understanding
 We the lost children of Israel in this western world region
 You ain't a man you a coward if you cant support the girl you put a seed in
 Strong rule the weak, but the wise rule the strong
 It's more to a war than just getting it on
 Conceal your form, cover your tracks
 Stay prepared I don't care if no one's spared
__SEPERATE__
Listen up gangstas and honeys with ya hair done
Pull up a chair hon' and put it in the air son
Dog, whatever they call you, god, just listen
I spit a story backwards, it starts at the ending
The bullet goes back in the gun
The bullet hole's closin this chest of a nigga
Now he back to square one
Screamin, "Shoot don't please"
I put my fifth back on my hip
It's like a VCR rewindin a hit
He put his hands back on his bitch
My caravan doors open up
I jumped back in the van and closed it shut
Goin reverse, slowly prepared
My nigga Jungle utters out somethin crazy like, "Go he there"
Sittin in back of this chair, we hittin the roach
The smoke goes back in the blunt, the blunt gets bigger in growth
Jungle unrolls it, put his weed back in the jar
The blunt turns back into a cigar
We listen to Stevie, it sounded like heavy metal fans
Spinnin records backwards of AC/DC
I give my niggas dap, jump out the van back first
Back upstairs, took off the black shirt
I'm in the crib with the phone to my ear
Listen up so y'all can figure out the poem real clear
The voice on the phone was like, "Outside right we"
So with my mouth wide, holdin my heat
Bullets I had plenty to squeeze, plenty for ya
'Cause Jungle said, "Block your on enemies the"
Hung up the phone, then the phone rang <phone ringing>
I'm laid in the bed thinkin 'bout this pretty young thing
Who left, she came back, her clothes just fell to the rug
She fell to my bed and gave me a hug
I told her, "No hell"
She talkin 'bout, "Me kiss"
Bobbed her head then spit the nut back in my dick
Started suckin with no hands, a whole lotta spit
Then got up and put her bra back on her tits
Got fully dressed and told me, "Stressed really I'm"
Picked up her Gucci bag and left her nigga behind
Walkin through the door, she rang the bell twice
I vomited Vodka back in my glass with juice and ice
The clock went back from three, to two, to one
And that's about the time the story begun
That's when I first heard the voicemail on the cell
It said, "Son we found that nigga we gotta kill"
Ay yo son, ay yo son, you hear me, you hear me?
Listen man, this dude right on the block, right now, man
I found him, right now, I see him right now!
Let's kill him)
"Yo, this Nas, leave it.  Peace"
__SEPERATE__
Yeah, yeah, yeah yeah, Nas, uh, yo, yo
Life, they wonder, can they take me under?
Nah, never that, nah, yo, yo
I come from the housin tenement buildings
Unlimited killings, menaces marked for death
Better known as the projects where junkies and rock heads dwell
Though I owe to it my success
With survival of the fittest, everyday is a chal'
I would think I'm a part of U.S.A. and be proud
Confronted with racism, started to feel foreign
Like, the darker you are the realer your problems
I reached for the stars but I just kept slippin
On this life mission, never know what's next
Ancient kings from Egypt, up to Julius Caeser
Had a piece of the globe, every continent
Yo, there's Asia, Africa, Europe, France, Japan
Pakistan, America, Afghanstan
Yo, there's Protestants, Jews, Blacks, Arabics
Call a truce, world peace, stop actin like savages
No war, we should take time and think
The bombs and tanks makes mankind extinct
But since the beginning of time it's been men with arms fightin
Lost lives in the Towers and Pentagon, why then?
Must it go on, we must stop the killin
Tell me why we die, we all God's children
All this hate can't last forever 
It's time that we stand together 
Everybody wants to rule the world 
World , world , world , world
Yo, there's brothers on the block, posted up like they own it
That's they corner, from New York to California
Got blocks locked down
Like, "dog you safe whenever you with me, see this is my town"
So the youngsters, grows in ghettos, goes to prison
At an early age, already know it's against him
So in order for him to survive, one day he must
Open up his eyes to the set backs and rise
'Cause, everybody wants a shot, in this land of opportunity
Look at what this country's got
There shouldn't be nobody homeless
How can the president fix other problems when he ain't fixed home yet
The earth wasn't made for one man to rule alone
To all colors increases, to home it belongs
I want land, mansions, banks and gold
The diamonds in Africa, oil in my control
The world's natural resources, all its residuals
But then comes foes, I have to gaurd it with missels
And I become the most wanted
But is it worth hearin a million people problems and followed by Secret Service
I guess, attempts at my life with loaded barrels
So move over Colin Powell or just throw in the towel, yo
Y'all know that's my style, to hit you at the right time
No other compares to what Nas write down
Tell you my dreams, show you my pain is yours
You could get what you love, be a chain in cause
You alive right now
There's so many that's dead or locked up inside the beast, I'm a hot light now
It's whatever man think of manifest to the real
The plan is to wake up 'cause time reveals
All this hate can't forever last
All my ghetto heroes in Heaven, it's like you right here and never passed
You just transcend, I know I'm gon' see you again
Hopin I reach the world leaders and win
Ain't nothin without struggle, listen up, it's critical
We used to fear arms, now the weapons are chemical
In Hip-Hop, the weapons are lyrical
To be the best you challenge the best, then the blessings are spiritual
Top of the world for the kid and unless
Poppin any rapper's head off his shoulders no contest
I know the Most High hear me, so fly you can't near me
You scared of a mirror, my theory is that - knowledge is power
To every projects and every street corner, we gotta get ours now
Yo, niggas ain't forget shit, know what I'm sayin?
Niggas ain't forget nothin
Men, women and children killed by the police and shit
Niggas ain't gon' forget that, you know what I mean?
Yo, what this war just show me is like, whatever you want out of life
Whatever you feel is rightfully yours, go out and take it
Even if that means blood and death
You know, that's what I was raised up on, that's what this country's about
This is what my country is, and my country's a muthafucka
__SEPERATE__
"Watch Out" 
There's a man who live the life of danger
To everyone he meets stays stranger
With every move he makes, another chance he takes
Odds are he won't live to see tomorrow
He's secret agent man amazin man
Check how he walks, how he talks, how he lays his plan
Secret agent man advance his game
They give you a number and take away your name
Secret agent man amazin man
Check how he walks how he talks how he lays the plan
Secret agent man advance his game
They give you a number and take away your name
They wear pretty face that you find
A pretty face can hide evil mind
Be careful what you say, or you'll give yourself away
Odds are you won't live to see tomorrow
Agent man amazin man
Check how he walks how he talks how he lays his plan
Secret agent man advance his game
They give him a number and took away his name
He's secret agent man amazin man
Check how he walks how he talks how he lays his plan
Secret agent man advance his game
They give you a number and take away your name
Yea,  yea,  yea  yea, 
Secret agent man amazin man
Check how he walks how he talks how he lays his plan
Secret agent man advance his game
They give you a number and take away your name
Swangin in the Rivera one day then layin in the Bombay alley the next day
Oh no, who let the wrong word slip
While kissin the persuasive lips
The odds are I won't live to see tomorrow
I'm secret agent man, amazin man
How I walk n talk and lays my plan
Agent man advance the game
They give you a number and take your name
He's the…Agent man amazin man
Check how he walks how he talks how he lays his plan
Secret agent man advance his game
They give you a number and take away your name
"Watch Out" 
Uh secret agent man
Uh, uh, more bullet proof than a spook set by the door
More legend than 007, more raw
"Watch Out"
__SEPERATE__
Uh, I knew a few pharmacists, fuck frozen
They kept pneumonias on their arms and wrists
The main dude, Sekou, face look hard as shit
Remember like yesterday, they were the kings of ecstacy
Kept sellin' it, he blends in everywhere, has a mixed heritage
Bitches let him hit on the reg', waterbed seats in his car
All red ferari, Florida where we met at a redlight
Homeboy bumpin' my old shit
They wildin' with some freaks from the islands
piled in behind him, limosine, Benz
He shouted, "Nas, roll with us"
I'm bored so I followed him
Nikki Beach, here's where the scene begins
He put me on to Don, nice ass with a set of mean twins
Had a pocket full of cash, Sekou wasn't lettin' me spend
I was there for the weekend, packed and prepared for anything
Then he brings me to his castle in Coconut Grove
War stories about dudes both of us know
Never heard drunken words spoken so slow
A year go by, the nigga was fly
Prada shoes, a lotta jewelry, stayed high
Got a call, he's in N.Y
Needs a couple of G's 'til tomorrow, I dips by
for a season where he's at
Greets me with a smile, told him "Here keep that"
Next week got a call from his wife
Said somebody done took son life
She said
"Who gon' hold me down now? Hold me down now
Tell me that huh -- who gon' hold me down now?
Who gon' hold me down now? Who gon' hold me down?
Tell me that huh -- who gon' hold me down now"
Forget about them other dudes, they talkin' to me rude
'Cause I always knew the truth, they hated Sekou
H2 full of holes, the drove him off the road
Left him there on this 'cain, clothes stained with his brain
My soul shattered, my man's toe's tagged up
Arrangement's a closed casket
See now a hoe has to, maintain with his fake gang
sheddin' fake tears, I won't have it
Look, this kid's Jamaican -- half Hatian, half Asian
Brag about how the streets needed a changin'
Son, you the only one a bitch could call
You remind me of my dude, help me get them all
 "Di-sci-ple" 
 "You remind me of my dude, help me get them all"
 "Di-sci-ple" 
 "You remind me of my dude, help me get them all"
__SEPERATE__
Yo..
Is it ill, do it need to be fixed?
Nah it's just that sometimes I feel like that
I can write more fouler than the last
Yo that shit is cash trust me Dunn; I'll never lead you astray
Take my word niggaz wanna hear how you think
It be that shit that you wouldn't expect to win
that stay playin in they decks over and again
Speak your thoughts, put your all in it
Whatever's in your mind, spit it
Place your anger on the page, release tension on the tape
A stress verse, seem to be what they most thirst
Makes fake niggaz disperse, they never challenge what works
Balancin the weakness, is what I specialize in
Dunn you my nigga cause you keep me hype when I'm writin
Kept me on point in the night when it might go down
Keep me eyes wide in the daytime as well
Kept me focused on what's real and nuttin else
I find it healthy, to conversate with myself
I kick it with my delf 
It's that inner voice you shoulda took head to and shit
Coulda been home instead of bleedin
Maybe next time you'll listen when it speaks
Yo Dunn, I got a story to tell
Remember last week's mission?  I told you bring the gun
 Nah listen, without me you'd be a memory
I'm the one you could come to for guidance
Bring you home alive when you wildin
Kept you out of harm's way, told you when to spray
Told you when it's time to put it away
and when the cops came, you was safe
Without question, I stay aware Dunn I'm listenin
Everytime we speak it's real, I know your intention's
to make sure we both safe and livin, and breathin
You gets all respect from me Dunn, believe it
Yo we got kids to raise and bills to pay
Enemies to lay down when they stand in our way, it's only us
 Now if you die is they comin?
When you shot do they feel the bullet?
And when you broke can they fix it?  Aight then, you keep writin
and let me do the thinkin, I brought us this far without mistaken
Voices in my head from choices that I dreaded choosin
Cautions I shoulda took head, lost in my weed, steady losin
Thug stripes, badges of honor, forces to succeed
Whores on they knees, fuckin with millionaires, killers and thieves
I fuck until there's no feelin where, I bust and I pee
I lusted cars but I suffered and my scars run deep
I stay to myself, one deep, pray to my God cause he
say when it's hard get on one knee, and ask Thy for forgiveness
Fuck the cash, the ice, the Ferrari's
with two-twenty on the dash when your life ain't right
See niggaz smile up in your face and stick a knife in your back
Snakes shake your hand and got his dick up in your wife back
Why's it like that?  It's life black, this is the game
The way I see it both bitches and niggaz, is the same
I trust myself, I can't fuck myself
When hoes leave and no weed I still know me, just myself
Fear is weakness learn from what experience teaches
Beware of leaches, the vampires, my secret's
never follow, cause most niggaz is straight up cowards
Take care of my body's the temple my mind is the power
__SEPERATE__
One 44, two 45's
3 loaded clips, 4 niggas roll, one nigga drives
500 Benz, 6 reasons why 
This kid should die
We shootin every motherfucker outside
Pulled on his block, jumped out the car, guns in our hand
At the same time everybody ran
There that nigga go, hiding in the crowd
Let the trigger blow, 7 shots now he lying on the ground
Blood on the floor
Then we shot some more 
Niggas he was with
2 niggas hit, one nigga fell
One tryed to run, go get him son 
Make sure he's done before we bail, i aint trying to goto jail
Must handle beef, code of the street 
Load up the heat, if these nigga think they could fuck around
Real niggas do real things
By all means, niggas knowin how we get down.. It goes......
]
Shoot 'em up, just shoot 'em up, what..
 
Kill kill kill, murder murder murder
Driving through roads, Suburban Chevrolet
6 tinted windows, and I'm on my way
To get up with my hoes, I pull up to they house
Not a freak to be heard, nobody came out
Ringin the bell, where in the hell
Could they be at, I'm about to leave
Steppin' slow, where my truck was at
Who the fuck is that?
Could it be a jack?
Now pull my strap, it's my man
And we have the same plan
There them bitches go
Civic '94, looking funny though 
Open up the car door, funny smile
Fuck 2 already, 3rd ass was heavy 
"Nas this is Sherri, Sherri this is Nas, and his man. Ready?"
Walked in the house, snatched off they clothes 
Ran through them hoes 
Plenty ice, that they all seemed to like
Can't find my man, heard a blam blam
Now I'm wonderin, "In this scam, do I even stand a chance?"
He killed the hoes, took all they doe
Fire in his eyes, higher than the sky
Comin down the stairs
Now he wantin mine, reachin for my nine 
Aiming with our guns at each others face, at the same time
my nine on his lips, his fifth on my chin, I start whispering 
"Put your gun down, we can skip town"
Rocked him to sleep, pushed back his meat
Lift off his chain
Took his shit, emptied out close range...
]
__SEPERATE__
Yo, release what's in me
Besides the Henny, it's eyes that's seen plenty
Fiends get skinny as if Queens was a Craig Jenny
Instead of diet plans it's crack 200 grams
I pump a G-pack, peeping for where the D's at
It's slow, lookin for Rambo, the cop who got grazed
Back in the days, chasin niggaz through my project maze
That cop he got a death wish
He run behind niggaz until you breathless
Everyday he makin ten arrests, sheeit
My nigga check this, I know the bitch he rest with
I even blessed it, forty-dash-ten inspect it
Peep, he parked his Jeep in the back of the slum
to check Tanisha, fat ass real fly, with the blonde caesar
Vetacini summer gear, she push the two-seater
I heard she brag about the way he eat her
A Irish man short slim with a tan, they say he laced her cheeba
She do be lookin weaker, now her teeth are foul
Speakin loud, peep her style, in and out of every reefer cloud
Fat ass dissolvin, like cotton candy in a mouth that's starvin
Rock the same gear daily, like a soldier in my squadron
I heard she let Jake investigate from her window 
cause she's a nympho, suckin dick and coughin up info
So now it's set up, her and the beast to get wet up
I know he vest up, we blazin from the neck up 
  Soon as he open it your glock burst
They had the chains on, son hit the lock first
We busted in the cop jerked
Jungle popped one in his shirt
I grabbed the bitch by her tits, she tried to say she Earth
We saw the cameras, tape recorders, and the monitors
They eyein us 
Pull his shades down, they seen his last days now
There's no way now, we can be treated just like a slave now
Two in the dome, he's laid down, aiyyo the bitch is saved now
She's living in a snitch grave now
Shootouts is similar to Wild West
Broad daylight, face to face without a vest
You know the episodes, thugs camouflage the spectacles
Please God to save the life that the Devil sold
See +It Was Written+ but was never told
Peep the jewels black man, it's even better than gold
Niggaz roll with iron, police roll in hot pursuit
tryin to stop the loot, fuck Jake, cock and shoot
Still on the streets with my peeps so deep
We threw a block party for my man goin up creek
to do his two to four, niggaz show love, from all around the board
Peace Lord, Sony Handi-Cam on record
Pop a bottle, cause when you come home we still got it sewn
We can watch the tape play back and just zone
Film all the bitches, on the benches with ill extensions
We block the streets off, only crew cars can enter
Music was loud and it was crowded
Barbecued wings we fed the fiends  Killa shouted
And Frank tried to stop the bank loss, about what a Roley cost
Guzzled his drink, and staggered off
He's a Big Will, used to slang krill, now he own the hill
Couldn't take losin his cash, and I could feel
somethin in the air yeah, Frank returned with Pierre
A gun slinger, who niggaz hadn't seen in a year
I usually be holdin - 'specially this type of weekend
And everyone except for me had started reachin
They had gats in each others faces, with kids
and grandmothers around, Frank's only concern was his paper
My man Killa let off, half of them fake niggaz jet off
Police blitz quick, waitin for that to set off
Runnin the static, it got me mad cause they a bunch of faggots
Startin shit in my hood, I can't have it
Yo High, get the 40-cali stainless, Jake is still out
Let's make it real and still make them niggaz famous
Dip behind trees in fatigues and squeeze, dodge and weave
Hearin Jake retaliatin, and Wiz was up the alley waitin
We breeze, jump in the ride, heard Pierre died
Internal bleedin inside, and ain't been back since ninety-five
__SEPERATE__
]
Silent, silent
Murder
It's sort of like the conclusion, the color purple
Niggas is losing, confusion, with one time all pursuit moves in
Grabbing niggas up in this movement to rule shit
Cop verses the block, shorties is too quick
Lesson number one. If you're arrested and hung
Where niggas is from gotta keep a lid on your tongue
It's like silent murder, I hit blunts hard like Ray Mercer
the violent words of a prince in a palace of Persia.
The cognac plurger plus the trees,
but whose the faul one to make his nose take a freeze,
and got enough gold to rock ice in all hype.
Used to be a general but just lost his stripe
Pipe dreams and white feinds and all-nighters, collect calls from lifers
Astoria walls with cypress, since I got a problem with the law-writers,
I kick some more items just to explore horizons,
the palm lady dreamt of this day so I'ma play,
the crib close smokin' with the big toast and lay
They say the arms of Nicki Barnes would be enough to blast,
a lot of rich niggas fell and started pumping gas
Was it the mind of CIA that bumped off Malik Shabazz
Fuck what they teach in class I'ma reach the mass
Strap up, no back up, it's jungle tactics
Livin' practice, out of line niggas get smacked backwards
So wear it if the cap fits, fold it up money and mad clips
A stack right under my matress
To smoke a nigga like a Hugh Bros. motion picture
Niggas gettin' open cruise, won't be olding niggas
April fools they laugh the jokes on the benches
Cease outside my nigga spoke on his sentence
]
Silent
Silent, silent
Murder
My right handers never play too close to cameras
It's nighttime scanners circle that allow gamblers
Peace-making niggas pep talk
the peace-makin 'niggas walk off the hot avenues with they brew.
Time to get this loot countless, 'cuz sun it ain't no youth fountains
Niggas take cash and shoot, bounce and Pakistanians is took hostage
Locked up inside a linen closet known for spending pies up
What's the flavour when your neighbors do jake favours?
Lock them real niggas down and lettin fake players
roam around the project this lyrical logic I dilute,
the weak can object the right composite
We're plottin' all murderous schemes,
it seems I'm ghostly called by the essence of queens
the palm lady dreamt of this day, so I'ma play
the crib close smokin' with the big toast and lay
]
And Cain killed his brother Abel when God accepted Abel's 
offering and not his.
Abel's offering showed that Cain was not giving his best to God,
and Cain's jealous anger drove him to murder -
drove him to murder
__SEPERATE__
Uh... Uh
Now there's two ways we can do this keep it real or front
I know you got what I need and I got what you want
And the hunt for soulmates is all over for us
We could go away where nobody would know it was us
Leave behind all the fuss the studios the pictures
No autographs just laughs when I'm with ya
I know what it's like when they know you now
But bark it at the dog baby, and I'll hold you down
Time and time and time again
I knew that our love had to end
But now it's gone so very far
That I can make a brand new start
I thought that we were meant to be
Be one big family
But I was weak and loved you still
No matter what you did, I could forgive
All I need is sincerity
All I need is sincerity
Thinking 'bout you all the time
Never seemed to cross my mind
How you could take the time to kill
Everything our love had built
I never knew how you could hide
Everytime you told a lie
But now I know why you're so cold
But I don't understand
Now that you set me free
I truly think that we
Could find love seperately
I need sincerity
One thing, I'm not as weak
I'll always stand alone
But my mind is not made of stone
So I'll go on
All I need is sincerity
All I need is sincerity
Chipped tooth don
Nasty, blue ice timbs on
Screw it face, half moon part, my tatoos dark
On a scale of tough criminals, nothin to call me
I'm a rare individual, young and I'm bossy
Guees it come from a rough life, cuffed at night
Lettin' off hot lead that bust from iron pipes
I'm the type that have to shed blood
Pray to the ghost of dead thugs, dead blocks that spread drugs
Fled from the cops 'till when my first joint dropped
I'm still with my hood, Hollow Point still in the glock
But I've been shitted on by these high class hoes
Even these chickens did me wrong, I was just gettin' on
So I turned cold, givin 'em hard dick and straight to the hole
Like Rod Strickland, it was takin' it's toll
I needed someone I could hold in my darkest hours
A strong couple is a blessing and the heart is the power
Give me someone I could trust, not just a hotty to bone
Does she love Escobar, or love Nasir Jones?
Let me know so I could cop her the stones
What's clear to me, it's sincerity
Somebody I could call my own, yeah
All I need is sincerity
All I need is sincerity
__SEPERATE__
Situations I be kickin' just you get you pacin'
That attentive, parental supervision, you should do the diction
Street chronicles, struggles and losses
Can make a nigga's moms hang up crosses and horseshoes
I brought you, to that state of mind you needed
By now your weeded, bob your head, recline seated
And put your life inside the shoes of the shiestiest crews
With sports cars and the iciest jewels, Ya know the rules
In this street life, by now the beasts might be least white
Stash your heat right, my pop passed the peace pipe
And shed light on, he put me right on
To be an icon, cause dead niggas got they name wrote up in krylon
The fast life, fistfights, that shit could like amuse me
Some chose a road some niggas died so what's to choosin'?
At night time it especially addresses me
Preferably, around 10, when my weed cipher begin
We start buggin' on facts, half the facts that's for sure
Put your zone in my world if we adapt, crack, and pour
Make a toast yo that's how we break bread together
Probably when we dead be better, the problems ahead whatever
Courvoisier sippin', whippin' out-of-state missions
And just in case your snitchin', the safe's hidden
With these conniving things, niggas make it to obvs  to bring
Hatred to enterprising cream, advise your team to wiser schemes.
__SEPERATE__
It's sly Fox, cyclops
We locked in an idiot box
The video slots broadcasting Waco Dividian plots
They own YouTube, MySpace
When this ignorant shit going to stop?
They monopolize and lose your views
And the channel you choose
Propaganda, visual cancer
The eye in the sky, number 5 on the down
Secret agenda, frequency antenna
Dr. Mindbender
Remote control so controlling your brain holder
Slave culture, game's over
What's a fox characteristic?
Slick shit, sins in, misinformation
Pimp the station, over-stimulation
Reception, deception
Comcast digital Satan
The Fox has a bushy tale
And Bush tells lies and foxtrots
So, I don't know what's real 
 
Watch what you're watching
Fox keeps feeding us toxins
Stop sleeping
Start thinking outside of the box
And unplugged from the Matrix stopped you
But watch what you say, Big Brother is watching
 
Watch what you're watching
Fox keeps feeding us toxins
Stop sleeping
Start thinking outside of the box
And unplugged from the Matrix stopped you
But watch what you say, Fox Fire is watching
 
The Fifth Act that got you all riled up
O'Reilly? Oh really? No rally needed, I'll tie you up
Network for child predators, setting them up
MySpace, pimps, hoes and sluts
Y'all exploit rap culture, then y'all flip on us
And you own the Post, and y'all shit on us
What is their net worth?
They're going to try to censor my next verse
Throw them off the roof neck first
While I'm clicking my cursor
Reading blogs about pressure they put on Universal
It gets worse
While I'm clicking my mouse
While they kick in my house
They figured us out
Why a nigger go south?
It's either he caught a body
Don't sleep, they're watching
I watch CBS, and I see BS
Trying to track us down with GPS
Make a nigger want to invest in PBS 
 
 
They say I'm all about murder murder and kill kill
But what about Grindhouse and Kill Bill?
What about Cheney and Halliburton?
The back door deals on oil fields?
How is Nas the most violent person?
Y'all wouldn't know talent if it hit you
Bringing up my criminal possession charges with a pistol
I use Viacom as my firearm
Then let the living split you, who do you rely upon?
Then shoot shells at Leviath-o-n
I'm dealing with the higher form
Fuck if you care of how I write a poem
Only fox that I loved was the red one
Only black man that Fox love is in jail or a dead one
Red rum, political bedlam
Don't let the hype into your eyes and ear drum
Murder our own fox
Not A-Team with Baracus
And he hates Barack because he march with the marches
 
I pledge allegiance to the fair and balanced truth
Not the biased truth
Not the liest truth
But the highest truth
 
I will not be deceived
Nor will I believe in the propaganda
I will not fall for the oke-doke
I am tuned in...
 
Watch because they're watching
Watch what you're watching
 
Better watch because they're watching
Watch what you're watching
 
M-m-media, misleading you
Watch what you're watching
__SEPERATE__
See no evil.. fear no evil.. speak no evil.. hear no evil..
If you don't bring that shit around you
You ain't got nuttin to worry about 
Yeah 
Knah-saying?
Yo, yo yo yo
Carolyn, from Maryland, she Lady Heroin
She elegant -- her apparel in the M-Class caravan
Ki's of dope, loving cats to ski in her throat
She fuck killers in her condo, her Benz and her boat
Her iced throat, ass is curvy, 40 years old
She passin for 30, Gucci framed glasses from Purvy's
Madison Ave., shoppin when she not, coppin bricks of that shit
She hoppin on dicks, riding Pony's who trick
At my man's wake, she said the eulogy
After that I usually, bumped into her shoppin for jewelry
Her bodyguard screwing me, I gave her my math
Ain't nothing new to me, blowing backs out, six-pack Stout's
Wide fat mouth, the evil look, with a bow-leg
Yo niggas said, "Shorty's a pro, she blow heads
She push the for' red, she know Feds, Feds know her"
A code red, maybe she's out to slay me, this bitch is crazy
She blew the celly up, meet me at the telly to fuck
She knew about, cats from way back, we smoke the haystack
She never cough once, blunts was her hobby
She said I knew her man probably, no doubt, not since he tried to rob me
I jetted though, sometimes you never know
He snorted all her work, now she need me, to do her dirty work
It's a small world 
Nigga you reap what you sew
What goes around, comes around
If you sleep you don't know
A very small world 
where beef could never end
At the time you least expect it
I'm gonna see you again
It's a small world 
You get away with it now
Soon enough it catches up to you
Someway, somehow
Yo it's a small world
Watch what you do..  
Snook from Redhook was grimy, did five years, glad to be home
from Attica known, for keeping chrome calibers
Smooth like a Wallaby shoe, he's out to get it
Five years planning to blow, soon as he hit the bri-dicks
Had a girl in Woodside Queens, thought he was low
Played the crib for a month, and deaded his P.O.
Started robbin niggaz til he caught a whole kilo
He had a bunch of starving niggaz he owe, he never paid though
Got large, sign on his door, "Don't knock hard"
Laying with his bitch, niggaz is rich, is what he told her
Played the block, holding cracks inside the baby stroller
Here come his crazy soldier, six shots it's over
A year went past, Snook went flossing fast
His old man had crossed his ass, for the laws of this fast cash
It's a small world 
Nigga reap what you sew
What goes around, comes around
If you sleep you don't know
A very small world 
where beef could never end
At the time you least expect it
I'm gonna see you again nigga
It's a small world, no doubt 
You get away with it now
Soon enough it catches up to you
Someway, somehow
It's a small world
Watch what you do..  
I seen death, seen thugs cry, it's bugged why
we let the slugs fly, enter your brain, through your skull
Another thug died, pitchin your soul, into that infinite
black hole, where many souls go cause of a fo'-fo' blast
Snook was one of em, so many more
Even that Fendi whore, got niggaz hit up yeah let that Henny pour
Carolyn, paid-up bitch, made bitch, stay rich
Heard her bodyguard took Snook to God
Carolyn when she needed him, he took the job
He was close to her, ever since she took him inside
When his moms died, dopefiend OD-ed, eighty-five
He went crazy, stuck up banks, to stay alive
He was live - do niggaz even know the things that he tried
Robbed armored trucks - incidents where po-lice died
He stayed in lower Eastside, peace God 
He staring at me hard
Two of his mans with him, I got to hit em
I'm reaching for my Roscoe, cocked it back on, and get my blast on
At the gas station, bunch of Arabs racing
out the way, as my Torah spray, jump in the whip
Hit the highway, you know how I say, the game that I play
It's real tendencies, when you feel your enemies
but can't figure out whose who, keep it true
Shit is cool now -- put the tools down?  Never
Cause everyday is on, Levin this life, out for this cheddar
It's a small world 
Nigga you reap what you sew
What goes around, comes around
If you sleep you won't know
A very small world 
where beef, never ends
At the time you least expect it
I'm gonna see you again
It's a small world 
You get away with it now
Soon enough it catches up to you
Someway, somehow
It's a small world
Watch what you do.. 
("I'm going to see you again..
Uh-huh.. I'm going to see you again.. nigga..
Uh-huh.. going to see you again nigga.. yeah..")
__SEPERATE__
Bis-Mi-Allah A-Rahman A-Rahim
Pass that shit homey
Now tell me what y'all smokin
What kinda heat y'll holdin
Well is your creep move potent
I got a bunch of bullets and a bag of guns I pass 'em to my niggaz c'mon
We bi-coastin, keepin our po-ckets bulgin
We got the plan in motion
I got a bunch of bullets and a bag of guns I pass 'em to my niggaz c'mon
Zoom, from outer space he comes
Blunt in his mouth with his hand on his gun
Bitches flappin they gums, do he be clappin and shootin guys
Actor or a movie star, rapper revolutionized
What is his race nation or creed?
Is he arabic, black, latin, asian they read
Magazines say I walked on water, talked to the heavens
Spit at judges, stepped on peasants
But in reality, I just entered your galaxy
September '73, up in these wild streets
Fuckin these wild freaks, a harem of hoes 
And my mystique got 'em tearin my clothes
My nigga smoke with one lung
If he cough he might die, passin me trees
The liquor bottle's almost empty
We about to collide, with the enemy
Only way you die if it's meant to be
You fuckin with a general
No discussion is the principle we bustin it's the end of you
Now we knockin on your mama door
Like we cam to fix the sink; my kind of war
Death, angels comin for you
Spirit horse runnin from your body like Young Guns 1 and 2
Paramedics fightin for you, who's gon' win?
The hands of time, or the hands of medicine
Don't cry, witness your fate, this is your wake
Walk by your casket, spit in your face
Enter the fog dog, the light is your guide
And when you're gone all your niggaz gon' light it with Nas
Pardon but I gotta question of life now
Look at the nigga next to you right now
Is he real, fake or scared
Do it like this niggaz right hands in the air
Ball it to a fist and put it over your heart
Now let's say it all together let the ceremony start
I shall - stay real stay true stay holdin figures
Never put a bitch over my niggaz
I shall never, cooperate with the law
Never snake me I always hold you down in war
If they take one of mine, I take one of theirs
I never break the oath to the death I swear
I swear that's how we pledge alegiance, to the alliance
of underworld's killers and thugs, though the science 
of a nigga still yet to be found
So light up some green, and pass it around 
Wanna get high, come smoke with me 
Smoke with me, light it up
__SEPERATE__
Nas, let's go, yeah.
This was here for the snitches, yeah
Gangstas keep your hands up, yeah
Snitch alibi, yeah.
To the snitch alibi nigger I can't tell,
I know you won't tell, I know you know well,
On the block... thus we make our male,
Why you're playing to be a gangsta I can't tell,
Nigger, I can't tell, nigger you ain't gonna tell,
And before you go to jail maybe you ain't gonna tell,
Before you get a bell nigger you ain't gonna tell.
To the snitch alibi, I, I know you...
I know your nigger is a... up,
You eat fat stereo, fat... work for the,..
Man you're a loser or zero,
... your move your is a hero,
Therefore, you lack... like a,..
Lose though 'cause you... crack game like a... so,
Nigga you better be careful.
Yeah, I'm losing this game,
Better answer not name,
Got to watch out of your plane,
'Cause they gonna tell, gonna tell.
Yeah, I'm losing this game,
Better answer not name,
Got to watch out of your plane,
'Cause they gonna tell, gonna tell, they gonna tell.
To the snitch alibi nigger I can't tell,
I know you won't tell, I know you know well,
On the block... thus we make our male,
Why you're playing to be a gangsta I can't tell,
Nigger, I can't tell, nigger you ain't gonna tell,
And before you go to jail maybe you ain't gonna tell,
Before you get a bell nigger you ain't gonna tell.
To the snitch alibi, you better be careful,
'Cause you're walking on the wrong side
... there's where you stay for the long while,
... brothers you left to die
Mother fucker, you FBI, what happen to street, what unrespect,
Turning to Al Pacino and Johnny Depp,
'Cause you tell undercover...
Sing alibi taught it was a stand up guy.
They don't tell, they don't tell, they don't tell.
You know what now,
There's one thing I can stand as a middle...
The police... you can't witness, you just... mother fucker,
... than you're wick and...
To the snitch alibi.
__SEPERATE__
]
Some of us have angels -- the kingdom, the power
Some of us have angels -- the power, the glory
Some of us have demons -- greed, and lust
Some of us have demons -- lust, temptation
Now this is you, dressed in all black, fatigue hat, ready for combat
A good nigga, you don't leave tracks
A hood nigga wantin G-stacks, do what you gotta do to get that
You feel you need that, where the jooks at?
These are your niggaz, creepin they be leavin niggaz sleep witchu
Loc' style, quiet no smile, it's the official
Sometime they grimy, speakin on they own people
They snake you if they have to, raised tattoos
Now these are your bitches, phonin lonely homey chickens
All the homies stick em, you think you own em man listen
She stab you in your sleep with a knife from out the kitchen
Put a root on you, next week they find you missin
Dead in your Expedition in the forest, fell off the cliff and
tumbled til you blew up, Feds told her and she threw up
Fake bitches, actresses, wicked witch practices
Two sides of us, negative or positive
Now this is your mom, your good luck charm
Pushin you to do no wrong, prayin for you that you live long
Nobody kill my baby, but she know her baby crazy
In and out of jail, mom's screamin, "God take me!"
This is your pop, chip off the old block that made him
The man of the house, mom and pops seperatin
Spittin image of a gangster the way pop walked
the way pop talked, got older and you thanked him now
This is your hood, poor folks drugs and robberies
Turnin into the things moms wanted you not to be
Crime followin the wrong dudes who have no values
Life's cheap as the dime in the minds of those around you
This is the test, the stress, the conflict the ups and downs of
niggaz around you make threats
They tell you keep it gangster, no matter the predicament
Even though your decision won't help you benefit
Now once again this is you, entertainin your desires
Bitches money and guns, aimin and you fire
Everyday is grief, if it ain't beef, it's feedin your seed
Tryin to eat?  You form material needs
The weed make your brain sizzle, a pistol make it cool off
by stickin up niggaz, make them take they jewels off
His reputation is, bigger than his whole life span
He never planned to fail, he just failed to plan
What does it take to realize, Satan's alive, he whispers
And any chance he get, he can take niggaz
He comes in all shapes and sizes, his best disguise is
when he stand beside us, but God is inside us, within me
You are your worst enemy - my mom's words echo in my head
And if I let go I'm dead
He stepped at my door, the ? motivate my spirit
And now the body experience, so now I feel it
Lookin at my blessings, the bullets - that missed me coulda hit me
Them court cases coulda put me in the penitentiary
I never hate, that's just wasted energy
The past is gone, the present's a gift, so what's the mystery?
The future - and time only reveals, what fear is
False expectations, appearin real
We only human, love thy neighbor, so I was told
and I will til permanently, my eyes are closed
__SEPERATE__
QB the whole NYC
We gonna bounce to this
To all my niggaz 
To all the ladies
Sometimes I wonder
Will a nigga go under because of his hunger
This game is risky
If a nigga slips six deep
Will these niggaz really miss me
Dead partners too soon
All these niggaz flipping on me
Cause I won't give no loot to them
Sometimes I wonder
Sometimes I...
Top of the world is what I'm aiming at
These niggaz is flaming gats at my circle
I catch you, my first reaction is to hurt you
I hit your bird too, two in your scalp then you out
Your thug crew is out, blood oozing out
Some serving caine
Knowing nothing about this murder game
Its easily told but hard to hear
When niggaz finally find out its real
Thats when they heart pumps fear
The real remains the weak will disappear
My words is 20/20, my vocals are crystal clear
911 style sits on your mind like chrome
Lets say your brains is V12, put it in drive let it roam
What color? Might as well make it same as your dome
You need your thoughts together, that means destination is unknown
As we travel on this road, an infinite path, I get into this math
Drop and get intense for this cash
Will I be subject to kill, live my life by a gat
Just when I think I made it out, the street is calling me back
I know a lot of fiends by they first name
Living in Queens, a lot of cats getting stuck for they chains
Holding dirty guns, the young owe dirty ones
Running wild, niggaz I raise hell above ground
Live in sin, holding rocks, benjamin grin
Figure once I got knocked, it would end
Never that
They try to tell me I don't love my own
The thugs know, they ride my zone
Like the cyclone trademark
For coney isle, yeah you know me now
I'm giving fake hugs, phoney smiles
Stack profits, you know how the niggaz on the block get
Try to give you dap to stare at your pockets
Cruise advance nothing new just the rules of the land
You could tell if they wolves or lamb
You could fight a few, there's a few that ran
Or you could feed them and lose your hand
What you wanna do?
Blessing be to the ones who left us
Transcend into spiritual essences
In Allah's arms you rest in
To him we pray for my peeps
Floyd, Twin and Taiyeh, Mr. Sunny back in the day
Get the money yam, he use to say not only nice with hands
But streetsmart he was twice a man
I try to understand life's deep plot
I think of Weewop, Shikeisha they both was mad nice on the rocks
They could have went pro but only God knows why not
Like my nigga Bing, let your sneakers not be clean
He'll start snapping on you, making a scene
Kept the lye, a cool nigga warm heart and stayed fly
You still alive, I see you in your sister's face
Are you there pa? Or looking on from a distant place?
My thoroughbreds, Blackhead quiet but real
Expect to see your black jeep fly over the hill
In the spirit of Richie Lou tribute
Remind the world of the crimes that NY pigs do
We miss you, Harry and Sonia
Rest in peace to Marty, a 41st side of Vernon soldier
T.J. Black better known as Killer
I can't replace you, but in me Havoc will always have a brother my nigga
My man Will till we meet again
You hold it up there, I'll hold it down here
I hope you hear my prays clear
__SEPERATE__
Peace to the Five Percenters, online engine inventors
Shout to them niggas, family men, bringin' home dinners
Watch out for desperate lonely women, hurt ya happy home
Miserable and alone, kissable, nice to bone
She not the type deserving of a throne
Her beauty is her curse, she fuck for shoes and a purse
Make me a movie first, can watch you on my phone
I shop in Barcelona, I spend some nights in Rome
Feel like a knight from England, that's what I named my son: Knight
He was born to be one, that's how my game was won
White 740 Beamer, licked by an angel's tongue
I'm livin' dangerous son, she got a man, a famous one
Honey be pocket watchin', she got a lot of options
Hard to make up her mind decidin' which baller to rock with
Hot to death, slim pickings, but I'm not impressed
She got the hottest sex, so I guess I'ma just...
Stay
Even though I don't like you, next Friday night can't wait to fight you
Locked up I would knife you, don't fuck with you
Last month I even bucked at you, you got locked
I felt bad, wait, do I got love for you?
I might kill you, but do I got love for you?
I want you dead under 6 feet of soil
At the same time, want you here to witness me while you in misery
We hate each other, but it's love, what a thug mystery
Years ago they ate the heart of a slain enemy
We enemies, but your hatred could never enter me
Some seek fame cause they need validation
Some say hatin' is confused admiration
Spotlight on me, I still look twenty
Still get money, lady killer pushin' a Bentley
Maybe niggas could see too much of they failures through a nigga who realer
I don't like you near bruh, but I need you to...
Stay
__SEPERATE__
]
Some people 
Some people 
Some people really are
Still dreaming (And as the sun sets
and the night falls)
They are still dreaming 
He pulled up at 6:30 in his 745
As he wavin' his shorty hi, you know he showin' his bling out
She got in the car, he drove, he pulled his thing out
His girl call, feelin' she mad, she threw the ring out
How she found out, she dreamt the whole thing out
Y'all be goin' through problems you gotta work the kinks out
When you go to sleep, what do you think 'bout?
If y'all get a divorce she gon' take everything except the kitchen sink out
Make it so cold that you gotta pull ya mink out
Or grab ya roller skates and, turn a roller rink out
You now back up in the club, in the club, tryna min-gle
Meanwhile, she out, doin' the same thing now
Nightmares from your dream gal make ya scream out
Some people really 
Some people really 
Some people really are 
Still dreaming 
(O-o-o-o-one two one two
Some dreams stay dreams some dreams come true)
They are still dreaming
(O-o-o-o-one two one two
Some dreams stay dreams some dreams come true)
Some people really
Some people really
Some people really are
How you a man waitin' for the next man to get rich?
Yo' plan is to stick out yo' hand real quick
So if he feed ya family and he serve you shit
Then he need that head you get and he deserve your bitch
Since you wishin' cash fall from the sky all ya life
Dwellin' on the past when you was alright
When you was gettin' cash but wasn't too bright
Now ya luck down you feel like, bustin' them shells
Nobody owe you, can't do nothin' for self
Want niggaz to show you, how to come up wit' green
I scheme since I'm fourteens, what the fuck was your dream?
Rental cars, little broads, sayin' you was seen
Wit' little niggaz wit' a chain you was doin' ya thing
How high was I? You the thousandth guy
That came around thinkin' we can see, eye to eye
We on a different echelon, coulda got bread together
Now you gets deaded on
Some people really 
Some people really
Some people really are 
Still dreaming
(O-o-o-o-one two one two
Some dreams stay dreams some dreams come true) 
They are still dreaming
(O-o-o-o-one two one two
Some dreams stay dreams some dreams come true) 
Some people really
Some people really
Some people really are
She had several cars, she had credit cards, a castle
Large master bathroom, gettin' a pedicure
Belaney by the glassful, said she been meanin' to ask who
Would need a cash rule, who could blast tools
And I'm eatin' cashews, knew she was bad news
But we mad cool, nothin' sexual 'cause I knew her since high school
Grew up wit' my dudes, like one of my crews
She worked for Fox News
One of her mans that she lent her drop to
Won't come back wit' it so she want him clapped in it
Says it's important that it looks like an accident
She was snortin' and her eyes had bags in it
Sheets was recordin had a wire, askin' shit
Four days before I came by she got bagged wit' bricks
Crossed the line from her world of news castin'
To a world of entrapment, a good girl gone backwards
Still dreamin'
__SEPERATE__
Uh, you know I still run with that, that blood of a slave
Boiling in my veins
It's just hot until a nigga can't take it no more
Blood of a slave, Heart of a King
Turn my voice up
Ayo, the brother is "Stillmatic"
I crawled up out of that grave, wiping the dirt, cleaning my shirt
They thought I'll make another "Illmatic"
But it's always forward I'm moving
Never backwards stupid here's another classic
C-Notes is falling from the sky
By now the credits roll starring Nas executive poet, produced, directed by
The Kid slash Escobar
Narration describes the lives and laws tribes in the ghetto trying to survive
The feature opens with this young black child
Finger scratch, cigarette burns on the sofa, turning the TV down
Mary Jane girls, 45's playing, soft in the background
Poof from C-Town's mornings was hash browns
Stepped over dope fiends, walking out the door, all of us paw
I learned the difference between the snitches, the real ones, and who's soft
And the murderous, hungriest crews
People jumping from roofs, shotguns pumping made it through my youth
Walking very thin lines, ages seven and nine
That's the age I was on my album cover, this is the rebirth
I know the streets thirst water like Moses
Walking through the hot desert searching to be free
This is my end and my new beginning Nostalgia
Alpha and Omega places, it's like a glitch in the matrix
I seen it at all, did it all, most of y'all been pop for a minute
Spitters, sinners and the game get rid of y'all
Y'all got there but y'all didn't get it all, I want my style back
Hate to cease y'all plan it's the rap repo-man
To them double up hustlers, bidders, niggas who real
Professionals, stick up child's dreaming for meals
Let my words guide you, get inside you
From Crips to Pirus this is survival
Blood of a Slave, Heart of a King
Blood of a Slave, Heart of a King
Uh, uh Blood of a Slave, Heart of a King
Uh, yea
Huh, Braveheart
__SEPERATE__
Uhh, what, what, uhh..
]
Street dreams are made of these
Niggaz push Beemers and 300 E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reachin a key
Everybody's lookin for somethin..
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees, for niggaz with big G's
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's lookin for somethin..
My man put me up for the share, one-fourth of a square
Headed for Delaware, with one change of gear
Nothin on my mind but the dime sack we blazed
with the glaze in my eye, that we find when we crave
dollars and cents, a fugitive with two attempts
Jakes had no trace of the face, now they drew a print
Though I'm innocent, til proven guilty
I'ma try to filthy, purchase a club and start up realty
For real G, I'ma fullfill my dream
If I conceal my scheme, then precisely I'll build my cream
the first trip without the clique
Sent the bitch with the quarter brick, this is it
Fresh face, NY plates got a Crooked I for the Jakes
I want it all, Armor All Benz and endless papes
God sake, what nigga got to do to make a half million
without the FBI catchin feelings
From fat cat to papi, niggaz see the cat
Twenty-five to flat, push a thousand feet back
Holdin gats wasn't making me fat, snitches on my back
Livin with moms, gettin it on, flushin crack down the toilet
Two sips from bein alcoholic
Nine hundred ninety nine thou from bein rich but now I'm all for it
My man saw it like Dionne Warwick
A wiser team, for a wiser dream we could all score with
The cartel Argentina coke with the nina 
Up in the hotel, smokin on sessamina
Trina got the fishscale between her
The way the bitch shook her ass yo the dogs never seen her
She got me back livin sweeter, fresh Caesar
Guess, David Robinson's, Walle' moccasins
Bitches blow me while hoppin in the drop-top BM
Word is bond son, I had that bitch down on my shit like this
Growin up project-struck, lookin for luck dreamin
Scopin the large niggaz beamin, check what I'm seein
Cars, ghetto stars pushin ill Europeans
G'n, heard about them old timers OD'n
Young, early 80's, throwin rocks at the crazy lady
Worshippin every word them rope rockin niggaz gave me
The street raised me up, givin a fuck
I thought Jordan's and a gold chain was livin it up
I knew the dopes, the pushers, the addicts everybody
Cut out of class, just to smoke blunts and drink naughty
Ain't that funny? Gettin put on to crack money
With all the gunplay, paintin the kettle black hungry
A case of beers in the staircase I wasted years
Some niggaz went for theirs, flippin coke as they career
But I'm a rebel stressin, to pull out of the heat no doubt
With Jeeps tinted out, spendin never holdin out
__SEPERATE__
"Uh. What?! What?! Uh."
Street dreams are made of these
Thugs drop Beemers wit' three-hundred E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reachin' a ki
Everybody's lookin' for somethin'
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees for playas wit' big cheese
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's lookin' for somethin'
My man put me up for the share, one-fourth of a square
Headed for Delaware wit' one change of gear
Nothin' on my mind but the dime sack we blazed
wit' the glaze in my eye that we find when we crave
dollars and cents- A fugitive with two attempts
Jakes had no trace of the face, now they drew a print
Though I'm innocent 'til proven guilty,
I'ma try to get filthy, purchase a club and start up for realty 
For real, G, I'ma fullfill my dream
If I conceal my scheme, then precisely I'll build my C.R.E.A.M.
The first trip without the clique
Sent the bitch wit' the quarter brick, this is it
Fresh face, NY plates, got a crooked eye for the Jakes
I want it all, ArmorAll Benz and endless papes
F' God sake, what a nigga got to do to make a half million
without the FBI catchin' feelin's
Street dreams are made of these
Thugs drop Beemers wit' three-hundred E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reachin' a ki
Everybody's lookin' for somethin'
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees for playas wit' big cheese
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's lookin' for somethin'
From fat cat to papi, niggas see the cat
twenty-five to flat, push a thousand feet back
Holdin' gats wasn't making me fat, snitches on my back
Livin wit' moms, gettin it on, flushin' crack
down the toilet- Two sips from bein' alcoholic
Nine-hundred-ninety-nine thou from bein' rich but now I'm all for it
My man saw it like Dionne Warwick
A wiser team for a wiser dream, we could all score it
The cartel, Argentina coke with the nina
Up in the hotel smokin' on sessamina
Trina got the fishscale between her
The way the bitch shook her ass, yo, the dogs never seen her
She got me back livin' sweeter, fresh Caesar,
Guess, David Robinson's, Walle' moccasins
Bitches blow me while hoppin' in the drop-top B-M.
"Word is bond, son, I had that bitch down on my shit like this."
Street dreams are made of these
Thugs drop Beemers wit' three-hundred E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reachin' a ki
Everybody's lookin' for somethin'
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees for playas wit' big cheese
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's lookin' for somethin'
Ill designer fleece, studded marquise,
a letta L on my car keys- Thuggin' hard on Cavarse
'Posters be Franchesco and all these bets
Mobile phones in the armrest, ladies be the bombest
I creep tinted, parked the whip and grabbed the rented
Seems like I'm changin' my location every minute
like a plague is on my head, son- I vision red rum
Warrent squads knockin' at the same time the Feds come
Pandemonium got me puffin' Cambodian
Grand openin's of barber shops and stock
My jew-el rock, tokin' pronto- Livin' like a pablo
Papi like a poncho until the state patrollers pulled us over
found the guns and the good
Had a nigga like 'Nas had to run through the woods'
Sneakin' out the next mornin'- Looked up to God,
guess in all this was a fuckin' warnin'
Took my diamonds in for the pawnin'
Now I'm back on the climbin'
Movin' consigned through rain, sleet, whatever climate
So many ups and downs shiftin', I was twisted minded
'Mazed on top, all the hoes and pussy had me blinded
Big lip bitches, suckin' dick rediculous
GS'es and vest-es, larger rays lookin' sentious
Back on the block buggin', how the fuck I been through this?
Nearly caused my life but now I can't show a cent from it.
Street dreams are made of these
Thugs drop Beemers wit' three-hundred E's
A drug dealer's destiny is reachin' a ki
Everybody's lookin' for somethin'
Street dreams are made of these
Shorties on they knees for playas wit' big cheese
Who am I to disagree?
Everybody's lookin' for somethin'
__SEPERATE__
Low profile, rap style, slick as Nu Nile
Give the crew pounds everytime we cover new grounds
Still surviving but there's a few down, back in the essence
I'm asking questions on the phone, with jail adolescents
Quiet confession, the system's applying the pressure
My mind is guessing, is living and dying a lesson?
But not to be obliged with the mirage
of cars taking you off track 
from with the gods focus on hard
Laid up smoking cigars
Motioning maids to bring me toast and eggs
Kosher, ice chokers and wolves to smoke ya
my wisdom culture lives in ultra madness
devoted coach bag bitch
broke the average nigga's hopes to get mad rich
But what's the purpose
Only the Gods can watch the Earth twist
I'm physically trapped down on the surface
with all the crack merchants
snakes and serpents
foul jakes the searches
clowns with four pounds this ain't a circus
Street dreamer
Oh mercy mercy me
Ain't nothing I got for ya
Situations gettin heavy
Heavy, heavy
Trying to be a gangster
The black clouds over the hood, I'm on the corner with the thugs 
Late night under the moon as they assume I'm slanging drugs
Cause I'm hooded up, thought a G a night wasn't good enough
Pushed my luck, yo they had a brother put in cuffs
Luckily, made it out of court comfortably
Judge said I need a job ain't nothing coming free
Could've got a one to three
I try to school these shorties under me
but they can't see 
From life to death
so know we back to where we never left the ghetto
It's a damn shame, knowing it's a man's game
Shorty thinks it's time to make ya plans change
All that running round trying to chase 
what's already here - been there, it's going nowhere
Pops told me knuckle up - no fear
I wish some of these killings
they could be prevented
whatever happens it was written
meaning God meant it
but during ya life you put ya heart in it
even though it seems we being targeted
let that brother R hit it
Sort of wild, since a child, hope was all we had
Drip the bust out past
complaning the mental straining
how many in my crew is into gaining
subtract the weak links about the chaining
rise it start raining
Blasphemy using Nas name in vain
Some claim supreme being yet they lied in his name
I tried to learn the game
and the only thing I found incredible
Everything I tried to learn see, I already knew 
And it's embedded in my heart now 
so I can sit back, count a stack
and play my part now
I saw my life flash in front of my eyes, he wore disguise
Put a gun to me hungry he went on to chastize
That's Nas ain't it, made it rich from entertainment
Fresh Wally's painted, as he told the kid he came with
My first thought was how the game flip
Yo perhaps it was somebody I smacked drunk in a party on yak
Or was I marked for a contract for some foul act
I did a while back or beyond that
You got me laying face flat
Saying my grace black, woke up in a cold sweat
Yo, I hate that
Nightmares, feeling real, word to Will
My A-Alike I lost in the battlefield
That's why I hit the mic with mad appeal
Grab ya shield and meet ya maker
Queens niggaz die for paper
These the things the street dreams will take ya
__SEPERATE__
Uhh, still out in these motherfuckin projects
Still a nigga ain't never gonna get the fuck up outta here
Niggaz just don't understand the story
Niggaz die for the street glory
Go to trial get tried for each story
And each nigga got a story
And QB the streets call me
So if you see me slippin' reach for me
I'm goin' after street glory
Go to trial get tried for each story
And each nigga got a story
And QB the streets call me
So if you see me slippin' reach for me
I'm goin' after street glory
Yo, 
Every time I turn around niggaz shot, niggaz stabbed
When tonight's pregnant girls strugling to get a cab
Fiends lurkin', D's searchin' pat pockets
Kids put to bed duck they heads from gas poppin'
Queensbridge slingin' hoppin' our benches 
Don status, throw feeds, got sirenges
Poppin' out they arm scratched
Now remember parked  
Cuz' else perfect ways, shell adidas 
Smellin' reefer way before purple haze
Private stock peer nigga with ill walks like Mark Clare
Has tilted wild niggaz lickin' shots in the air
Me and Pop was there through the years our names have switched
Ain't nothin' changed but the names Nastradamus and Blitz
What project is this? QB burnin' in tint
12th street murderous pimps, hot as hell's heat
What could you tell me? Niggas seen it all in this game
When it's all said and done just remember our name
I'm familiar with the dead grass drama black gates and crime
Embryo of the ghetto born face and time
Niggas shatter they dreams while I'm chasing mine
Ghetto fame got a fellow's name draped and shined
How do I describe an atmosphere where streets are polluted?
Where corruptors and new police being recruited
Somehow I make it through the day stayin' secluded
While the blues aim leavin' another slain, executed
Many thought's cause I see the past grimmly 
That could've been me, explodes out on 41st and 10th street
Through all the pap grease and street chases
Sudden raids and confrontations leadin the misdeamenor weed cases
I blew smoke through hallway window
Watched the buddah clouds lingo
Pluckin the blunt brokes from my fingers
My eyes flip different shades
Similar to people you meet everyday who be displayin' wicked ways
Seein' nothing but another day
In this six story rat trap
Them gats clap another nigga's blazed
Events in my hood rotate
Like the battle on the 38 snob in the world of fake love
Before I blaze son, I'm kissing the slugs
Coming at you kisses and hugs
When death calls who's really a thug
The street glory got me deeply in love
Can't shake it, can't take it, can't make it
Got me needin' this drug
__SEPERATE__
"Two-thousand-four, yeah. L, whattup?"
 "Prophesy!"
 "Yeah."
 "Prophesy baby!"
Disciple, Disciple  Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Word to mama, any lineup of rhymers
Could bring any drama, anytime, the city's mine
Nas Is Like, Love Undying, Money's My Bitch
In Thugz Mansion, thugs dancin' around the fly shit
Pharaoh garment's Prada, Egyptian camelback-riders
Pyramid architects, Perignon bottles, money, jewelry want me to come
Get me, hit me but don't miss me, you history
Lead flowin' around like a Frisbee, Italian dons from Sicily kiss me
This ain't 50, this ain't Jigga, this ain't Diddy, this ain't Pretty
Pain, power, pussy and pistols, lyrically no one, hold none near me, hear me
Kids cheer me like The Count of Monte-Cristo
Steady poundin' soundin' like G without the lisp though
My big bro told me plain and simple, "Nas do not look back"
Watch where you took rap, no bookbags and trucker hats
Just army jacks and diamonds that's flashin'
What the fuck is that, freestyle
Disciple, Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Like Paul, Michael and Matthew, Peter, James and Andrew
Phillip, Simon and Judas -- I'm disciple of music
Street beats is the main thing minus the traitor
And I'm not a dictator, I'm the righteous invitin' you haters
Inside the life of the greatest, it'll take you through something real
Get a smack in your face, 'cause I hurt up, trauma-tize, llama
Bust shells, destroy yet try'ta prevent violence
If I present iron somebody dyin', don't even worry 'bout it
Then dress warm for the cemetery climate
When I speak I need cemetery silence, terror
See me, gold Hummers, Lamborghinis, man who stole the summer
Hand straight gleamin', if I don't know you toe-tag you
Drag you through the cement, fo-fo maggie
Body parts in my man's Maserati car, then party hard in Madagascar
While rigor mortis'll grab ya, him retarded, I'm pass that
Gloves on, where the mask at? Too many love songs
All the thugs gone, what happened? Where's the passion?
Rappers battlin' non-rappers, carryin' on backwards
Laughin' sayin' Nas thinks he's Farrakhan preachin' blackness
Hell yeah, awareness is my alias
Word to the 'Braveheart' written on my bare chest
The realest, HERE IT IS!
Disciple, Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple 
Disciple
__SEPERATE__
All I do is stay focused looking straight forward at the world and beyond
I feel people pulling me down
I feel some pulling me up I can't get stuck
I just keep moving forward
I got places to go man. Let's go...
When the Armageddon's dark and dread
A lot of weak are to weep and moan
Only the strong will continue
Do you have it in you?
Come we've got a journey to go
And when the battle get sour and dread
A lot of weak are to wither and moan
Only the strong will continue
I know you have it in you
I know you have it in you
Hey, the victory's found in truth
Like innocence found in youth
Self defeat is your own dispute
And man, you put yourself in your own shoeses
Either you're winning or losing
Don't you get it confused
Play a star and you know your own movie
Playing of the role you choose, so
Stand up and fight if you know that you're right
And know you will never fail
Tipping the scale and the wind shall prevail
And the boat shall forever sail
Hey, there ain't no stopping or cruising
Even when you're battered and bruised
Outrun all the sprinters on Mount Olympus
My God's tougher than Zeus
:]
When the Armageddon's dark and dread
A lot of weak are to weep and moan
Only the strong will continue
Do you have it in you?
Come, we've got a journey to go
And when the battle get sour and dread
A lot of weak are to weep and moan
Only the strong will continue 
I know you have it in you 
I know you have it in you
As I walk through the valley of the shadow of death
New York to Cali, for the money, power, respect
It's a journey, some'll get left behind
Cause in life, you cannot press rewind
Get it right, you only have one first chance
To make one first impression that lasts a lifetime
Reputation supersedes itself
Do you believe in Hell? Babylon greed for wealth
Do you deceive yourself and let your ego swell?
And disregard those who most need your help
Thick skin, the dark won't take my soul
Survive spiritual wars, see my welts
And the evil's felt, but the faith is stronger
I saw grown men fall when I was a youngster
But I clench my fists, ready to go against whoever
Tie my Timbs and rise in the end
When the Armageddon's dark and dread
A lot of weak are to weep and moan
Only the strong will continue
Do you have it in you?
Come, we've got a journey to go
And when the battle get sour and tread
A lot of weak are to weep and moan
Only the strong will continue 
I know you have it in you 
I know you have it in you
No man live forever, but never say never
Every good he want better, must be a go getter
And always be clever in every endeavor
Cause drastic time call for drastic measure
Yuh birthright to pleasure From yuh navel string sever
The land and the treasure, work for whatever
Jah said don't be a beggar, the Alpha Omega
Will bless every soul no matter which name you prefer
The immortal stepper, believe in every skin no matter which color they are
We never let we don't know here which kind of weather
You're destined to rise like the Son of Rebecca
Don't stop for a second
Everyone reckon, it sure would be good to be there
Whether Zion or Mecca
When the gates are finally closed
And the saints go marching in
When the Armageddon's dark and dread
A lot of weak are to weep and moan
Only the strong will continue
Do you have it in you?
Come we've got a journey to go
And when the battle get sour and dread
A lot of weak are to wither and moan
Only the strong will continue
I know you have it in you
I know you have it in you
I'm a street lifer
Always harrassed by the cee cyphers
Chief like Geronimo with his peace pipe
I emerged from the street life
This for the homies who relate
Know what it be like
My QB life takin' a turn to the Louis XIII life
Twisted and mangled sort of like Bruce Lee life
Cursed with his son Brandon
If that's you and me, Knight, I pray our fates greater
I speak life I still matter as a rapper, not doubtin'
Even Toni Braxton signed a deal with Craig Kallman
How in, the hell am I supposed stay comfy
When I pay child support, alimony monthly?
Got Maseratis and Ferraris
Only like a woman who's a rider, but only ho's want me
Single life crazy, niggas wives on me
I say stay faithful, they say their man corny
So I'm, stuck with a married woman
So fine, cheatin while they husband
Rushing on the 40-yard line, wonder if
This is what my ex did the whole time
Good niggas seem to always end up
With some hard times, hope not
If a pimp slippin and a ho plot
Ain't nothin to a G in a two-tone drop, kid
And it don't stop, See a nigga dissapearin
With the baddest honeys in the whole spot, yeah
__SEPERATE__
Ay fellas
I think you might wanna s-s-sneak your ratchet in here for this one
Ay ladies
Put your petroleum jelly on your face
Yo Nas, we got a big bet in the streets
that you knock they ass out in the first 30 seconds of the first round
GET 'EM!
Sittin up drunk, shufflin thoughts
Got paper but I'm lost
Losin focus what a nigga still hustlin for
My seed is straight, the fam is settled
Idle time get the man in trouble
When wifey tourin, my life get boring
Start to remember all types of torment
The devil's callin, but I don't answer
Mom passed from cancer, leavin behind
two granddaughters, two grandsons, two 9's
next to me in the Phantom, who lyin?
Big screen documentaries of Idi Amin
Gotta, try to stay away from creeps
With they bullshit, tryin to put me back in the streets
War stories, funerals
where feds be layin from a dreadful slayin
Body viewing's at the wake
Nigga sit stiff in his Ferrari, no casket
with his eyelids still open, it's kinda spooky
Iceman watch on, the suit Gucci
I'm above the standard
But dude just Mar-salis than Branford
Thinkin you're too rich, they wanna gun ya
Kidnap ya cause of they hunger, but you fuckin with hunters
Camoflauged in black hoods that dump clips
Cause real niggaz die over dumb shit
Camoflauged in black hoods that dump clips
Cause real niggaz die over dumb shit
Fight, fists, dance, suckah
Suicide, bounce, brother
Ice, whips, cash, nigga
Watch yo', big, ass, momma
To your, power structure, Nas is dangerous
Y'all the antithesis, the opposite
Twitchin shit, all up in your body language
Mean muggin your bitch, cause she leans over
to look closer told you y'all sloppy gangsters sayin
"Nas is this and Nas is that"
Your eyes go front, your eyes go back
Surprised I'm at the same place y'all be at
It's obvious you don't know how I react
Like, I don't know where the party's at
You're foamin at the mouth, losin breath
Like a cardiac arrest, but I ain't impressed
Cause the fact is, y'all don't really want it
Two to the head, fo' to the stomach
Call more security cause I come off
anywhere you at you scary cats
If you dare squeeze back, guns shall rain
a thousand times harder than when I first came
Y'all not relentless, y'all dumb
And y'all just forgot about the consequences
Not a jail sentence, but see
the nigga you feed'll kick it to dude that kick it to me
We posess, the recipes for death, cause jealousy destroys
Feed the dog first, watch out for salmonella poisoning
I know a kid who'll throw shit in your food
And say, "That's the way you kill a man, avoid the shooting"
Hey...
You smile, in my face
Secretly I know, you want my place
You waitin on me to choke, don't want a nigga to breathe
You wanna come cut my throat, you wanna get rid of me
But before I let it happen them guns gon' start clappin
And y'all gon' rest in peace, cause death is the recipe
Before I let it happen them guns gon' start clappin
And y'all gon' rest in peace, cause death is the recipe
 Suicide, bounce, brother
 Suicide, bounce, brother
 Suicide, bounce, brother
 Suicide, bounce, brother
__SEPERATE__
Bad bitches, champagne wishes
Freaks only, baby let me take pictures
Life is good, life is good
Cîroc on splash, summer on smash
Top all gone, got the on summer on smash
Tank top on, summer on smash
My neck got a whole lot of glass
Got the summer on smash, summer on smash
Y'all know who got the summer on smash 
Look at baby girl showing that ass
She let the world know the summer on smash
Got the summer on smash, summer on smash
Everybody get the summer on smash
We got the summer on smash, summer on smash
Y'all know who got the summer on smash 
Got the summer on smash, eighteen karats
Little overweight, hit the gym, let's go get the abs in
Louis belt hangs on the waist, it ain't even fastened
I'm trying to get every number from every woman passing me by
She's fly; black, Asian, Boriqua
Italian, mixed chicks, Middle Eastern
Eritrean, Ethiopian, how you opening?
Just rolled four with them, bout to smoke again
Rose-gold Rollie, riding the top down
How does Pucci bathing suits on a yacht sound?
Send a massive e-mail to the females
Tell 'em where to meet us, give 'em the details
Cîroc on splash, summer on smash
Top all gone, got the on summer on smash
Tank top on, summer on smash
My neck got a whole lot of glass
Got the summer on smash, summer on smash
Y'all know who got the summer on smash 
Look at baby girl showing that ass
She let the world know the summer on smash
Got the summer on smash, summer on smash
Everybody get the summer on smash
We got the summer on smash, summer on smash
Y'all know who got the summer on smash 
We got the jam here, check it
It's the summertime, women damn near naked
It's single season, they choosing who to mess with
I just smashed another belt for the record, respect it
Nas get you out your seats, play this in your Jeeps
My people in the streets, I make it feel like it's the beach
My goons close by, I'm daring one of y'all to reach
I'm protected like the President, ain't gotta give a speech
Got a compass on the wrist, Illmatic on the feets
And they ain't even out yet, she like Ciroc peach
Chain-smoke cigars, count a whole lot of cash
And y'all already know who got the summer on smash
I gotta do something kinda unexpected, huh?
Bad bitches, champagne wishes
Freaks only, baby let me take pictures
Skin, sin; wait do you know whose pool you're in?
Beaches in Brazil, steaks on a grill
Your body is a weapon that you can't conceal
Real, make money when the freaks call
Summer on Mars, it's totally Total Recall
Like
Una vida, she butterfly
Caliente
Mami vente, vente comigo, ayo
__SEPERATE__
I was young, I was surviving the times
Waiting for my moment, I was destined to shine
Little Ray had an NSX, I was hoping I'm next
Wanting bracelets, never had a rope on my neck
Unless I was holding Taiyeh chain-Rest In Peace
Even though that night you flipped on us
You warned us If you came back and we still on the corners,
We goners, moving on to...
Move your arm in your watch To another time on the block
'Cause this 40 Side Where they say Shorty rhyme
Tragedy he used to come through all the time
I'm talking Juice Crew, not what the word define
He had a sister named Erin, for sure was fine
That was my first crush; I bought my first mic
I wrote my first verse, I was about nine
I was about mine, fantasize house-buying
Met Paul, he wore some big glasses
Him and Melquan took me where G Rap lived
I was happy, just getting some answers
I ain't even know what a record advance was
I'm seeing hoes sex in the studio bathroom
With rap dudes, thinking wow she moved me
Same girl then, right now's a groupie
Back then, she was like the star in the movie
Large jewelry and expensive Gucci
Next stop, Paid In Full posse recruits me
Knew they were some millionaires, their ropes were dookie
Eric B man looking like touch-it-he-shoot-me
You see, every time Ra didn't show
I get to record demos at attempts to blow
I wonder could they tell, how did they know
Sixteen years later, here I go
I'm with Akinyele in the street, trying to get us a deal
G Rap tried to get us to sign to Cold Chill
But Fly Ty didn't have the contract we wanted
Clark Kent just signed Das, he didn't want us
Russell said I sounded like G, the nigga fronted
Reef and Matty C offered me a little money
Shit a little funny, feel a little laughter
Rebel of Hip-Hop coming through a white rapper
My boy MC Serch nevertheless
Took me to Columbia, back then CBS
Chris Schwartz, RuffHouse, he was the best man
Now bugging because the label had just dropped Def Jam
Could you picture Russell needing a check, man
But he smart, he plotted a plan for Polygram
Life is I'll, again life's a movie
Then, the roster's: Cypress Hill, Nas, and Fugees
Before I sold records, no promotion
The rap world like, what's all this commotion
Went plat', mad bottles I'm toasting
20/20 hindsight, but how did they know then
Invincible, lyrical, miracle man, huh
But back to the matter at hand
'Cause ten years ago we all strived to be twenty-five
Some cats didn't make it alive
Dated some stars but respect their privacy
Copped mad cars, laying back in the driver's seat
Held myself down, just steering the wheel
Here I am, completed my whole record deal
__SEPERATE__
It was a murder
Jake just hit the corner people swarming
Three in the morning I jumped out my cab like "Fuck, 
niggaz is buck," mega bloodshed, the tapes red
I heard some bird whisper, "Yo he should have ducked"
I puffed the lilla, just before I hit the scene for rilla
I'm all high it's late I'm looking down at the fella
Shit's pushed in, ambulance placed him on some cushion
His mom's had a stare I wouldn't dare second look when I murk
It hurt, kind of took it as a brief reminder
that the street's designed to stop your life, plot
The beast in time yeah, cell to cell suspect ass nigga you fell
First time locked in crime stop my mind blocks the frail
Bursting blasting at your forty cal shell, split your dry cell
My niggas never snitch why tell
We roll with no regrets, destiny's, fifty's and equities
Queens'll be the death of me
To the suspect witness don't come outside
You might get your shit pushed back tonight
(Suspect witness don't come outside
You might get your shit pushed back tonight)
Dear God, I want the riches, money hungry bitches infested
Giving the jealous niggas sickness, the witness
My crew dresses, in vest-es, feel the essence
Try to test this, scientist, able and reckless
Slaughter, Nautica'd down, frames look petite
Ten millis, mix designed just for my physique
I keep a low pro as if I owe, bless the flow lovely
My pants hang low while I'm dancing, sipping the bubbly
Hey, me no worry, hashish keep my eyes Chinese
Rollin two Phillies together make blunts Siamese
I meant it, I represent it, descendant made of
early natives that were captured and taught to think backwards
Trapped us in a cracker psychiatric, it's massive
A Million Man March, alert the masses
Ten glocks, Armani in small print, upon my glasses
Don assassins, armageddon, the wettin'
Never freakin the beast, seven heads, got the righteous threatened
Life Was Written, the plot curves behind the settin'
Comprehend the grammar, Manfrione -- are you the type of nigga
to shoot a leg to get your name known?  I flip the brain tome
Niggaz get hit and wrap the plastic
The mic I strike in vain givin the pain of what a Mack is
What you with?  Luchi or drama, no sleep means insomnia
No need to check the clock, the streets are timin you
It justifies, Nas Escobar's leavin shit mesmerized
Mega live, like the third world
Decipher my deceiver make him a believer
Spitting jim stars, words in my mic ttype receiver
Bond is my life so I live by my word
Never fraudulent Queensbridge don't make no herbs
Spread my name to deacons, politicians while they speakin
Rebel to America civilization caught you sleepin
__SEPERATE__
"I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin like that" 
Yo; I never brag, how real I keep it, cause it's the best secret
I rock a vest, prestigious, Cuban link flooded Jesus
in a Lex watchin Kathie Lee and Regis
My actions are one with the seasons
A tec squeezin - executioner, winter time I rock a fur
Mega popular, center of attraction
Climaxin, my bitches they be laughin
They high from sniffin coke off a twenty-cent Andrew Jackson
City lights spark a New York night
Rossi and Martini sippin, Sergio Tachinni flippin mad pies
low price, I blow dice and throw em
Forty-five by my scrotum, manifest the "Do or Die" slogan
My niggaz roll in ten M3's
Twenty Gods poppin wheelies on Kawasaki's
Hip-Hop's got me on some ol', sprayin shots like a drumroll
Blankin out and never miscount the shells my gun hold
I don't stunt, I regulate
Henny and Sprite, I seperate, watchin crab niggaz marinate
I'm all about tecs and good jooks and sex
Israelite books, holdin government names from Ness
MC's are crawlin out, every hole in the slum
You be aight like blood money in a pimp's cum
"I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin like that"
"I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin like that..
.. for, you wack MC's"
Currency is made in trust of the Messiah
I'm spending it to get higher
Earth, Wind, and Fire singing reasons why I'm
up early, trustworthy is a nine that bust early
Sunshine on my grill, I spill
Remi on imaginary graves, put my hat on my waves
Latter Day Saints say religious praise
I dolo, challenge any team or solo
You must be buggin out, new to my shit, home on a furlough
Ask around, who's laid up, sharp and straight up
Mafioso, gettin niggaz wigs sprayed up
Skies are misty, my life's predicted by a gypsy
I'll one day walk into shots drunk off champange from Sicily
This be the drama, I'ma pause like a comma
in a sentence, paragraph's indented
Bloodshot red eyes, high, yellow envelopes of lye
Openin cigars, let tobacco fly
Condos are tuneproof, we're looking out the sky's moonroof
Shittin like gin and prune juice
Yo the system wants the coon's noose, hang em high
Courtrooms filled up, it's off the hook while I
just wrote a statement, like I'm facing twenty years
in the basement - chilling on the via with Mumia
for wearin chrome - I told the judge snakes slither 
like Sharon Stone, but like Capone I'm thrown 
"I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin like that"
"I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin like that..
.. for, you wack MC's"
"I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin like that"
"I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin like that..
.. for, you wack MC's"
Lyrical, ly-lyrical mission..
Lyrical..
Yo the time is wastin, I use the mind elevation
Dime sack lacin, court pen pacin
Individual, lyrical math abrasion
Psychic evaluation, the foulest nation
We livin in, dangerous lives, mad leak and battered wives
A lifestyle where bad streets is patternized
Wise men build and destroy
While the real McCoy dopefiend, named Detroit is still dealin boy
Coke suppliers actin biased
Cause rumors say that niggaz wear wires and we liars
But every night the gat's fired, and every day a rat's hired
I still remain the mack flyest in the phat Kani, it's --
-- just the killer in me, slash drug dealer MC
Ex-slug filler, semi mug peeler
Demi, bottles of Mo', yo simply follow me flow
Put poetry inside a crack pot and blow
rough holes for cracked out pussies and buttholes
Bring the G's and the D's roll, they can't touch those
Why shoot the breeze about it, when you could be about it? 
My degrees are routed, toward the peasy haired brick houses
instead of the fake medallions
Rich niggaz transport in thousands
Foreign cash exchange amountin to millions
Doors is locked, rocks is chopped, watch the cameras in the ceilings
Trick bitches catching mad feelings
Peelin off in the Lex Jeep, techniques is four-wheelin
I bet it be some shit when we connect with Stretch
When we catch them sex niggaz with the tecs you blessed, word
So now it's on, never wasted a slug,
Time is money when it comes to mine, take it in blood
"I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin like that"
"I made it like that, I bought it like that, I'm livin like that..
.. for, you wack MC's" 
Yeah, Capone-N-Noreaga
Yeah, yo, offical Queensbridge murderers
Mobb Deep keep it real though
Motherfuckin AZ yo
'Mega, 'Mega, whatever
Scarlett O'Hara
Yo, Fox Boogie
East New York
Gambo, Brownsville
Wizard, Fort Rockaway
Big Jersey
Connecticut, D.C., Sudan
V.A. ?? N.C., L.A.
So on and so on...
Big Ha, Houston Fifth Ward
Black Ed, keep it real Moe..
__SEPERATE__
Da ha
Da ha ha ha ha ha
Da ha ha ha
Da ha ha ha ha ha
It was '87
Crack money was "Ghetto Heaven"
Niggaz gettin' it
Every block rise to perfection
Green tops, boulders and bottles
Soldiers who follow leaders
You owed 'em dollars
Know that tommorrow you might not see it
Packs got knocked off by sprinklers that never worked
All the way to the monkey bars, cross that line you got murked
That's other niggaz territory had fiends in the cheese line
They told them fiends calm down, ten dollars each dime
They never scared of Po-Po, was only one patrol car
They wasn't  up for crack and I was up on the chin of Pa
Watching hustlers with tinted cars, money makin'
But one kid was into takin'
Had dreadlocks wasn't Jamaican
Fort green he laid
First nigga I ever saw rockin' dreads with a fade
Lead he sprayed on the corners in my hood
Dodgin' and runnin'
The glare in his eyes told you somethin' was commin'
They went to war, Godbless Rita, got shot by mistake
Niggaz got knocked by them Jakes
Homicide suit and tie cops, Mayor Koch, screams in rage
Niggaz so thugs got pits rocking thick chains
Stick-up niggaz so thug they got pits with sick names
Clicks got bigger, extortion cats wasn't hearin' it
But he was regulatin'
A ghetto king, now he levatatin'
They say he smiled in his casket
This ends the first chapter of another Nas classic
Tales from the hood, trails of blood
But it's all good, try to stay alive like we all should
Yeah I'ma help you nigga, cause I see evil's callin' you
Sick thoughts make you wanna take Ki's from other ballin' crews
Top of the world's all he views
A puff of weed, nothing but greed don't live by the rules
Fuckin' wit' me here's what I do
Try to sell your freedom I'm accustomed to
You could ball wit' me or get arrested too
It's easy to land where they dwell with the greasy hands
Twenty to L' what's your plan take your grams
You bought you a Lexus, BBS spendin' Abrahams
Never learned your lesson, choose the right direction
Thin line from life and death and my man checked in
A motel, same one as a young G he know well
Crossed 'em on a coke sell then went on a run
But shorty got his old folks killed, yo he got 'em done
Nobody to run to, what succumb to
My nigga just wanted to eat, now he hunted on the street
Tales from the hood, trails of blood
Yeah it's all good, try to stay alive like we all should
Tales from the hood, trails of blood
Though it's all good, try to stay alive like we all should
Little Gotti got down for his, let off seven rounds
The kid he hit is heaven bound if he's on the good list
Shorty who shot 'em ran knowing niggaz would snitch
Five years passed he ain't been in the hood since
Shot this nigga over a hundred dollars, money, had borrowed
Time passed, on his birthday he couldn't afford a bottle
Least expected to see 'em, then he asked for his
Nigga said he don't got it, so he blast the kid
Escapes the scene, but he couldn't escape the dream
Or how the kid fell when bullets made it too late to scream
Seeing money's face starin' at him
In black space feelin' hands touchin' him
Wake up it got too much for him
Once liked to be alone
Until he started hearin' groans and seein' things
Now it's time to go home
Niggaz shocked to see him
Gave him respect what he was missin'
All the way from VA his aunt yell "He hate to listen"
So he popped up, they gave him hugs, showed him love
Then he was reminded of that night when he sprayed all them slugs
He hangin' like nuttin' happened, police grabbed him up
Now he seein' ghosts in the cell, they got him strapped up
Psycho ward, rest of his life injected thorazine
Haunted memories in his mind of the murder scene
Tales from the hood, trails of blood
The book of the dead, translated in thug language, understood?
Tales from the hood, trails of blood
The book of the dead, translated in thug language, you understood
__SEPERATE__
Don't hurt nuttin..
A teenage thug 
A teenage thug 
A teenage thug 
A teenage thug 
A teenage thug 
A teenage thug 
A teenage thug
 Wanna fuck and puff lie
A teenage thug
Dreams of bein a doctor will deteriorate
Takin over the underworld was a clearer fate
Luxury cars, a hundred girls at my face
Laced the name brand, had my game plan mapped out
Lost respect for those cracked out
Most of my elders were failures
to the poison that killed Len Bias from bein Celtic
The later I would hang, the greater my slang
It took my english, replaced it with game
Only cared about, sneakers and two-two bullets
Influenced by the hood, wasn't scared to pull it
Dared to do what I would
First blunt they passed me tasted nasty
Then overwhelmed in the spell the blunt had me
Eyes red, pants saggin
My first dime cut me off for braggin
that we was home alone tappin
Experimentin liquors, doin mixes, feelin sicker
Finish the Henn, throw the bottle, hope it hit ya
Blacked out, I can't see shit sober, not the least bit
Hold your head little man, y'all can't tell me shit
Try to knock the pants off shorty, my hair just cut
My Timbs just bought, the chain I sport I floss
Thugs walkin through the block party, hands on my drawers
Poppin cham' corks, posin like the man of New York
Talk to this hottie with my niggaz who quick to blast you
if you old cats, to these niggaz, they harass you
Hey yo cuz, growin up, I almost shattered my plans
Some might say, I'm young at heart, but I'm a grown-ass man
Givin food to my fam, damn, remember the first time
a street thug showed me how to pitch dimes
Only twelve in this hell where kids die
I want bricks off the scale and just slide, and let my shit fly
My Range shift by, I peel the road up
with my shirt up, sweatin, with the ice restin on my chest
Wild as a teenage thug
Livin and lovin this life, cap peel pump niggaz
And since these thugs is trife, give 'em dap for that
Yo where your mack at?  I got mine
Twist weed pop wine shift finds, at the end of the night, it's all fine
Livin and lovin, cash stack cousin
Yo' own fam blitz so quick, put clips through whips
Six type shit let you hold it, ice roll with
twenty below with gat golden, my hand look swollen
Under my glove shit rocky
Unless somebody in my life try to stop me, get popped papi
A breddern, straight to the head that my medicine
No fam of mine do time, we crime settlin
Deliverancy unbelivable, Na'shon tracks smash people
I chill up in the regal Eagle
And plus it clap happy all of them hoes that's born happy
I rip nappy, nature's to cut the roof off of Caddies
You see me?
Don't hurt nuttin
Don't-don't-don't, don't, don't hurt nuttin
Don't hurt nuttin
Don't-don't-don't, don't, don't hurt nuttin
Don't hurt nuttin
Don't-don't-don't, don't, don't hurt nuttin
Don't hurt nuttin
Don't-don't-don't, don't, don't hurt nuttin
Don't hurt nuttin
Don't-don't-don't, don't, don't hurt nuttin
Don't hurt nuttin
Don't-don't-don't, don't, don't hurt nuttin
Don't hurt nuttin
Don't-don't-don't, don't, don't hurt nuttin
Don't hurt nuttin..
__SEPERATE__
I want to dedicate this song right here
To Jonathan Jackson and George Jackson
Peace to those brothers
I want to shout out my man Sherm the Worm
Eighty years
Come home nigga
Come home, niggers
Ugh
I just burnt my American flag
and sent three cracker nazis to hell and I'm sad
Ugh, I'm loading tips in my mag
to send these redneck biggots to some death in a bag
Choke him out with his confederate flag
I know these devils are mad
Little rap fans who live way out in safe suburbia
Would you stand with me, a United States murdurer?
 
Huh? Would you Testify?
You buy my songs
You buy my songs 
but will you ride with me?
 
You understand my struggle
That's what you claim right?
 
Then get your aim right
And get your game tight
Don't buy my songs, y'all don't roll with it
Coming to concerts singing hoe'ing shit
Fuck y'all lil' lil' hoe bitches
I don't need y'all, I'll go gold with it
I heard y'all was downloading it 
like I'm y'all man who be exposing shit 
like uhh, William Cooper 
who told you the  is the future
 
Would you testify on some realness like that?
I think you scared 
I don't think you prepared
Yeah
 
You know what I'm asking you?
 
Do you know what I'm asking you? 
Wow...
 
Wow...
__SEPERATE__
I pull a string on a lamp and shit darkens
I'm living in an elegant Moroccan apartment
Proletarian chicks sparkin'
Convo weak, and I don't really care for her jargon
Balcony is windy, looking at the stars and
I be on the Henny woozy in the head, wobblin'
Gucci pillow on the bed while she giving noggin
Listening and tripping off the Maxwell album
Thinking I should leave to a European island
Bristol or Spain, bring a book about Stalin
Dinner serenaded with a violin
But shorty not qualified to be took to that kind of outing
Gotta be a fly bitch to hang around that fly shit
Fine dining, Olive Garden
Nah bitch, Nas is in the real deal food spots on the constant
Pick the right wine, a Chianti to wash it
Lifestyle encompasses top notch watches
Rolexes, synonymous shit I'm coppin'
Ask her has she been around duffle bags
Full of that "fuck you cash"
Get off the jet with me in heels, I'll cup your ass
Lookin' in my eyes sayin' "Nas, you one lucky bastard"
Grip your clutch, you get finger fucked in the passenger
I hit the Dutch, blow smoke out, music and laughter
See us in the coupe flying past ya
Esco, dress code, it changes
Harrods in England
Back to the star spangled labels in my closet hanging
Counting wonder in the tundra
Get humbled but disgruntled when I come through, confront ya
Let nothing slide, sly remarks
You must wanna die, but you frontin' wild
When we all know you pumpkin pie
When we in the bus we fly better shit than Emirates
To Dubai, to the Chi, I'm a crucial conflict
Heaven sent, cause a storm, typhoon flood you out
You are what a thug about? I'm a fuckin' juggernaut
Never sleep, never tire, keep a freak I tie up
Who don't speak, she quiet
So I can think, conspire
On my feet's , and sometimes sneakers
Wear ties at the Setai Miami time-pieces
Are from Zurich. It's like I'm allergic
To non-oxidolic nine
Give it to you raw so you can feel it
__SEPERATE__
I carry the cross, if Virgin Mary had an abortion
I'd still be carried in the chariot by stampeding horses
Had to bring it back to New York
I'm happy that the streets is back in New York
For you rappers, I carry the cross
Y'all can keep y'all weak beats, from your corny producers
There's a new king of the streets, you're gonna get used to
I was the old king of the streets, that y'all once hated
But now I reinvented myself, and y'all all waited
NAS, N.A.S. mean Niggaz Against Society
Noisy I aim not silently, noose all surroundin me
I hang 'em I string 'em up ain't no thing I just drop 'em
to which doctor you copped and you locked and it ain't what it was
I changed it up from that pop shit it's hard to see R&B
rappers arguably, started fuckin up the game horribly
Cause, I parted the sea, then these novices targetted me
Bitches infatuated say they love me lyin to me
What I've discovered is my brother's tryin to be
the next me, yeah I support him but he's blinded I see
jealousy he love me to death am I buggin I love him for life
We both still mournin on our mother's, life
And I don't need much but a Dutch, a bitch to fuck
A six, a truck, some guns to bust
I wish it was that simple, the last emperor, hit yo' ass
with the Nasty Nas, diary, get out my path
I can't keep a bitch cause none of them come up for a little Des
I can't be too rich, too many hoes, lined up for sex
I can't rest until my niggaz in houses with pretty maids
Water and flowers in 'em
While my niggaz walk around in they trousers grinnin
Gotta keep a lot of heat; 30 cals 10 millimeters
40 cals plus the heckler, to set y'all straight
You too light? I shoot your freckles out
You too dark? The infrared show you what the tec about
Huh?  I'm stressin out, need more offices for bosses
Secretaries and meetings with big sharks, who mad greedy
We can sell mo', boats on the coast
Give, coats to the po' and give, hope to the broke then live low
But that ain't reality, I look happy but under the sky
You see a nigga who know, out of three women 2 out of 3
will love you but lead you to they own, hidden evil
BITCH!  You the reason niggaz be beefin, hoe get on
'Posed to be Earth, ain't worth the pussy that you sit on
From here on, it's a new day
Million dollars ain't, what it was yesterday
Many problems, many niggaz, most involved but they fake
Hope y'all relate
 I carry the cross
__SEPERATE__
Super Cat
New York girls Dem A mad ova wi 
Nas the Don 
In a new york city 
Yea.. yea
Smoking a escubano, guzzle my second bottle
Hope I don’t catch a homo 
Grossing our net
Simultaneously making me climb higher, heinous crimes behind me
Search but can’t find me
Fuck sadness
Had this been you havin’ this lavish
Habitual happiness at me you wouldn’t look backwards
You would have sex on condominium roof decks
So anyone move next
I’ll hit you with two techs
Rocking Roberto Cavalli no shirt on convertible Mazy
My Columbiana mommy ridin beside me
Every tat mean something, that’s my word on my body
I’ll have to lean something wit that Mossberg shotty
My niggas is ignant, put lead in yo pigment
Just cuz y’all was mad at all the years I was getting it
In 97 the six
98 the Bentley
Now it’s the Ghost Phantom
And ya’ll can’t stand ‘em but…
Nas the Don 
In a new york city 
Army Jacket swag Army jacket green and black
Wit the square top pocket that snaps
Where the gas at?
Pass that, not you
You hold cracks in your ass crack
I never did that, my sock where my stash was at
Yo I used to listen to that red alert and rap attack
I fell in love with all that poetry I mastered that
Cuttin school with Preme team at phat cat was at
Future not crystal clear yet Baccarat
Now I'm the one that’s reppin Queens way beyond your wildest dreams
Bottles on bottles with sparklers surround my team
That long cash get the baddest bitches out they jeans
20 years in this game lookin 17
I don’t lean: no codeine, promethazine
I just blow green, pick which bitch to bless the king
Although he’s on to another chapter
Heavy D gave this beat to Salaam for me to rap to
Blaaaah…
Yeah yeah..
New York is like an Island a big Rikers Island
The cops be out wildin, all I hear is sirens
It’s all about surviving same old two step
Tryna stay alive when
They be out robbin, I been out rhyming
Since born knowledge like prophet Muhammad
Say the ink from a scholar
Worth more than the blood of a martyr
So I’mma
Keep it on til I see billion dollars
Keep your friends close and ya enemies closer
Love model chocha mommy pop it like she suppose to
Eyes red shot like I’m never sober
Big time smoker Indonesian doja
Minis me you can hold up before you get all wet up from my soldiers
Don shit
Under fire I remain on some calm shit
This for every ghetto and the hood
Nas the Don and Supercat the Don Dotta
Understood…
__SEPERATE__
]
New york girls dem a mad ova we!!! 
New york girls dem a mad ova we!!! 
New york girls dem a mad ova we!!! 
New york girls dem a mad ova we!!! 
]
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas
Inna New York City-City, New York City-City 
New York City-City, New York City-City 
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas
Inna New York City-City, New York City-City 
New York City-City, New York City-City 
Smokin the escubano, guzzle my second bottle
Hope I don't catch a homo', grossing our net
Simultaneously makin the crime higher
Heinous crimes behind me, search but can't find me
Fuck sadness, had this been you, havin this lavish
Habitual happiness that mean you wouldn't look backwards
You would have sex on, condominium roof decks 
So anyone moves next, I hit you with two tech's
Rockin Roberto Cavalli - seriously!
He's in the club, I'm on stage ROCKIN Roberto Cavalli
Every tat mean somethin that's my word on my body
I have to lean somethin with that Mossberg shotty 
My niggas is ig'nant, put led in your pigment
Just 'cause y'all was mad of all the years I was gettin it
In 9-7 the six, 9-8 the Bentley
And now it's the ghost Phantom, and y'all can't stand him but...
]
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas
Inna New York City-City, New York City-City 
New York City-City, New York City-City 
Army jacket swag army jacket green and black
With the square top pocket that snaps, where the gas at
Pass that not you, you hold cracks in your asscrack
I never did that, my socks where my stash was at
Yo! I used to listen to that Red Alert and Rap Attack 
I fell in love with all that poetry I mastered that
Cuttin school where 'Preme Team and Fat Cat was at
Future not crystal clear yet Baccarat
Now I'm the one who's reppin Queens way beyond your wildest dreams
Bottles on bottles with sparklers, surround my team
That long cash get the baddest bitches out their jeans
Twenty years in this game lookin seventeen
I don't lean, no codeine, promethazine
I just blow green, pick which bitch to bless the king
Although he's on to another chapter
Heavy D gave this beat to Salaam for me to rap to
RRRRRAHHHHH!!!
]
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas
Inna New York City-City, New York City-City 
New York City-City, New York City-City
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas
Inna New York City-City, New York City-City 
New York City-City, New York City-City  
New York is like a island, a big Rikers Island
The cops be out wildin, all I hear is sirens
It's all about survivin, same old two step
Try to stay alive when, they be out robbin
I been out rhymin, since born knowledge
Like Prophet Muhammed said the ink from a scholar
Worth more than a blood of a martyr, so I'ma
Keep it on 'til I see a bilion dollars
Keep your friends close and your, enemies closer
Love model chocha, mami pop it like she 'posed to
Eyes red shot, like I'm never sober
Big time smoker, Indonesia dozer
Mini me's you can hold up, before you end up wet up from my soldier
Don shit, under fire I remain on some calm shit
This for every ghetto in the hood
Nas the don Super Cat the Don Dada, 
]
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don
Nas di don Nas di don Nas di don Nas
Inna New York City-City, New York City-City 
Inna New York City-City, New York City-City 
It's di heartbeat of di people, di ghetto people
And when I say ghetto people di people who cannot afford to go to di big concert
Some of these people do not even have TV, so they can't afford cable
Some of dem can't afford a radio, so di only ting they can listen to is di music
People from di ghetto, people from di projects, street people
Heartical ghetto yutes who know what it is to sing about sufferin and reality...
__SEPERATE__
Geah
 Peace king
 Peace king
 Listen, they wrote a book on your life
 Right
 You think anybody'll read it?
 No fuckin doubt!
 Let's make history homey
 Aight then
 You know we brought the hoes clothes and money rolls to the table
 No, fuckin, doubt
 It's time to manifest this
 Shit we the flyest nigga
 Bring it to a whole, y'know?
 Gangsta nigga
Niggaz better watch ya back, it's so cold
Pinky rings shinin, so act like y'don't know
Bitches in heat for niggaz that got dough
We the flyest gangsters
What you don't got is my natural glow
Countin out stacks and mackin out hoes
Pushin big dicks and packin our chrome
We the flyest gangsters
Follow, I'm like a Lamborghini green Diablo
Coupe VT, it's like DVD when I flow
Feel me, I'm loved like the great late Malik Sealy
The one the player haters hate dearly, but can't near me
Homicide can't scare me
I o-bide by the laws of these streets sincerely, a real nigga
The type that can build with ya
Verbalize bring life to a still picture, it's God-given
Been blessed with Allah's vision, strength and beauty
Truly my only duty is to dodge prison
Play wit me, I'm modest 'til them strays hit me
Regardless the circumstances I'ma stay filthy
Dough forever, the live stay low forever
And fuck niggaz, cause it's hard to keep them close together
One dependant, no wife, one co-defendant
No forms of weakness, I flow with vengeance
I do what I can do when I can do it
Feel how I feel when I feel what I'm feelin
Live how I live it's only cause I been through it
Learn to try it like to eat it and shit it's nuttin to it
Burn it light it weed it and off the liquor, while drivin outside
I'll never catch a vehicular homicide
My music is a description of my vibe of course
My life, my sites, my thoughts, what I like on my fork
Cause you are what you eat, you eat what you can
You pray to bless the food but first you wash your hands
to wash away them bad spirits, don't bring it in your home
Once you let them in they stayin, evil be gone, say it
I'm proud of Mase for givin himself to the Lord
Wanted his Faith, think about Big anymore
Of course my nigga Horse got married, see shit is changin
We ain't these little niggaz no more, runnin dangerous
I like to bone, I'm a peaceful brother
Eat up so much the girls call me seafood lover
Be havin they legs shakin, stab 'em, break 'em
I'm Hercules Hercules when havin relations, the flyest
 We put this on the, soul of our born
 As we hold the Qu'ran
 Kamikaze style
 Older cats coachin us on
 Yo it's kill or be killed
 Understand, real'll be real
 A forty-shot spectrum MAKE YOUR WHOLE EMBASSY KNEEL
 Identity sealed, protected by
 our energy shield
 And fuck a drop, cause that's that shit that got Kennedy killed
 Close the books
 Was taught never expose a crook
 Between the knight and the bishop
 Wanna knock ya rook; I'm a rare breed never had a fair to lead
 I ain't light niggaz recite
 Too impaired to breathe
 WE BOTH HARD HIT JUST LIKE CAMACHO AND VARGAS, WHO'S THE TARGET?
 Now watch how we close the market, motherfuckers
__SEPERATE__
Desert Storm
Firm Biz
Platinum
That's right... that's right
What the deal is?
Clue
I can take it back to blocks
Or all gods that used to slap box
They after your chain
Q-trains, playin the last stop
But regardless of rain
A mad hot
It neva mattered
Life just pussy and cable, plus they labeled me Savage
For the love of it
Till my death, they stay on sum other shit
Pops shoot, second nut, inherited his stuborness
Skyies are grayer, my whole clique despise the mayor
With dreams to excel, politicing amongst the wisest players
Stay in the cut, forever ganja-ed up
Private affairs
Cause pride in my fairs, News Years to Hanukkah
The streets a death trap
Greet chickens to where I rest at
Chiba-trickin, now it's 3 positions, some even blessed dat
It's only right though
I like em light, thin, and tight... cyco
Bony nails, ponytails, dressed in white gold
Her ass bet my life on the dice roll
You know the steela
Who rightfully, should neva bite the hand that feed ya
React like what, clean cut
Act up, royal as King Tut
Diamond cut teeth, B what
I know some crews who go through cars like shoes
Some niggaz make the news, wild as animals, who saber tools on the A-venues
And V-waves, say shit from my pops stays, the dese days
And PJ's, I concentrate on how the weed strays
Unlike the thoughts of many, unfortunately
A lot of friends will enter pensive force to hit me
Iceberg, eyes burnt
Flights to Pittsburgh with this bird
Got a room sign on the door, not to disturb, we twist herb
Listen to rumors that this bitch heard, some of them absurb
Some made me say 'Word? '
Dozed off, clothes off
Hopin to make moves to the pawn shop and drive slow North
Make it home and get these fo-fos off
Word Up
Gotta get this shit right, Nature
Need the paper, Desert Storm everywhere
The Firm is everywhere what?
Bring it to the tables like this Major Boy
Bring it to the tables
Stay on some gat shit, peep The Firm top draft pick
Collapsed on the opposition, soldiers is captured
God explain it, we rollers want this dough and ganja
Visions of holdin toast I post bail join an arraignment
24, still have the same shit, another customer
Posing as a decoy, frontin kinda muscular
I buy & bust, tustle my way up out the iron cuffs
Narcs is jumpin out the sky, knowing I supply the stuff
They fuckin sheisty, identify me by my Nikes
Dice one against the grain, ice chain, nice in a price b
Extortionist, constantly tossed by crooked officers
They swarmed with vultures, caught em hoppin outta carcasses
Niggaz is folders, phony potential beads is stolen
Can't even speak right plus keep cracks beneath ya scrotum
Seek advice in the streets light weed rightously on stolen land
Escapin out of state snakes to home a Sam
Foreva roll with fam, no rest it's just my destiny
Effortlessly finesse the recipe
Til my death day forever fresh
Stay frontin pushin G.S. three's
Who checkin me? I called a playa who said this, 'D
Fuck a ref, toe to toe son we hold it down successfully'.
__SEPERATE__
Yo man, it's a real game out here
Know what I'm sayin Nas?
Beats back in effect man
Swizz Beatz da monsta 
Get in line, everybody get in line
Listen the fuck up, to what's going down
Pay attention, aight?
Niggas salute me, bitches salute me
The block salute me, the hood salute me
You should salute me, they should salute me
So fuck who you are
I'm the motherfuckin general
When I walk through everything stops, silence
Remain quiet, babies don't cry thugs don't buss
Cops cut off sirens, oxygen freeze
Noises to a minimun nigga, I pop and I squeeze
I represent the pain and struggle
Cut out your eyeballs then brain-fuck you
Yo you testin with death
I'm confronting the justice, expressing my voice to the public
They got to free some brothas or we kidnap the judges
They got to free some sistas or we kidnap the judges
They got to beat the system that's enslaving the poor
Our practicing, gun rages, they R's and .44's
Many fought teams and for green this is war
This is life and I'm the hardest, got ya label all scared
Callin up the radio, don't want my records to air
Y'all ain't playin fair, to every rapper in the game,
I'm comin fo y'all blood, make room for the king... Nas
I'm the leader, that's it, nobody higher
Nobody touchin my crown, nobody dyin
Nobody smoother, harder, tougher, believe it
I'm much more smarter, much more strategic
Scholarships and hollow tips, a lot of walkin caskets
They talk a good one but there's never no action
And I'm the type to poison ya sista, twist her
Through with her, put the gun in your face and make you hit her
Make you quiver -when they silhouette of a Don, Benson
Light up a Cu-ban, recite a few psalms
Enlighten you quick, teach you how a king wins wars
Keep your ears to the street, love your enemies more
'Cause hate can frustrate, and confuse
Too eager you lose, patience, plan your attack then you move - ghetto
Green Berets, got freaks got hoes
Who be jumpin out of movin cars and land at my feet - because
__SEPERATE__
The G-O-D
Aiyyo, check it out...It's God's Son
I know I always give you clowns a little lean to come out
Cause I drop every two years...but it's over now, you know? Hah
The G-O-D S-O-N
K-I-N-G O-F N-Y-C
That's me 
Is it because I got the city on smash now
Oh woe woe
Or is it because your time's up and it's a wrap now
Hey hey hey hey
In the papers you read that Nas is crazy
Lost his mind as he leavin Sony
The INC got him signed
It's only a figment of your imagination
Went to way with New York's Hot radio station
Lost my patience, had to zone out
Rappers blown out, I have the throne now
The real shall reign, I feel your pain
You R&B, follow me, spell my name
God's Son across the belly
Pardon, I'm hardly a bully
But what y'all done to hip hop is scary
Nas'll be truly the, last soldier to roll with
Holdin it down, my proteges are over with now
A producer like Swizz Beats, on fire
So is the control room, soon as my vocals are down
Nas - God's Son, and y'all my little children
So bounce with it, if you can pronounce the correct spellin
__SEPERATE__
I know you think you got it together player, but fuck the bird you with
And listen close to the makings of a perfect bitch
Listen close to the makings of a perfect bitch
There's always one thing wrong and you wish that you could switch
Or fix, while you shapin' every curve and hips, you heard of this?
The makings of a perfect bitch
A ghoul at night, I role like Jack the Ripper trying to choose my wife
I need a ass of a stripper, fat lipper
Mad niggaz in this one predicament
You try to choose a loyal one and stick with it
My stupid dick again searching for something to jump and then start humpin'
Convincing me that the history of a woman is about leaving a nigga with nothing
So my experiences taught me how to come up with a plan to make a right one for the man
A toy for the boy, the one that righteously will understand
And since I can't find her I guess I gotta make her
I creep in the night like a kinky undertaker
I think I'm on a caper to abduct a nerd from the Ivy League
Next stop at the strip club snatch a bad one and flee
What's next, I'm stakin' out a five star restaurant to kidnap the chef
Say goodbye to the stress
I stitch 'em together then I kiss 'em forever
These surgical gloves are made of love, couldn't be better
Four cycles of blood, child birth first
Men-e-stral cycle, last men-e-stral cycle then death
That's four, so I guess rebirth is the fifth
Put 'em together, that's a genius, a slut and a chef
Holdin' the scalpel while cutting the flesh
Heavy bleeding, so I need suction, it's such a mess
If she survives she'll be sucking me next
Dark nipples on her D-cup breasts so I could titty fuck while she do
my taxes for the IRS
So I could just relax, shit, by now I'm blessed
I'm her daddy, I'm her messiah, I'm god
Cause I injected obedience and loyalty in her heart
Know you mad cause you with a bitch that nag you to death
I smack mine on the ass and she breathe her first breath
Gimme Sade's mystique, she gotta know her way in the streets
Like Billie Holiday in Harlem
Body from Ketoi Johnson and Kenya Moore and Apple Bottoms
Maya Angelou's brain and some groove from Terry McMillan
Them Angelina Jolie lips, Angela Davis, Sista Souljah's wit
Helping me load clips
Some words form a pimp was, "Nas, it just don't exist"
But homes is twisted, a home ain't a home without without the misses
All the girls that I named are queens, no disrespect
But I need me someone to disappear, reappear like I dream of Jeannie
Whenever I want, I think I met her, it's on, forever I'll flaunt
__SEPERATE__
Fake thug, no love, you get the slug, CB4 Gusto
Your luck low, I didn't know til I was drunk though
You freak niggaz played out, get fucked and ate out
Prostitute turned bitch, I got the gauge out
96 ways I made out, Montana way
The Good-F-E-L-L-A, verbal AK spray
Dipped attache, jumped out the Range, empty out the ashtray
A glass of 'ze make a man Cassius Clay
Red dot plots, murder schemes, thirty-two shotguns
Regulate wit my Dunn's, 17 rocks gleam from one ring
Yo let me let y'all niggaz know one thing
There's one life, one love, so there can only be one King
The highlights of livin, Vegas style roll dice in linen
Antera spinnin on Milleniums, twenty G bets I'm winnin them
Threats I'm sendin them, Lex with TV sets the minimum
Ill sex adrenaline
Party with villians, a case of Demi-Sec to chase the Henny
Wet any clique, with the semi-tech who want it
Diamonds I flaunt it, chickenheads flock I lace em
Fried broiled with basil, taste em, crack the legs
way out of formation, it's horizontal how I have em
fuckin me in the Benz wagon
Can it be Vanity from Last Dragon
Grab your gun it's on though
Shit is grimy, real niggaz buck in broad daylight
with the broke Mac it won't spray right
Don't give a fuck who they hit, as long as the drama's lit
Yo, overnight thugs, bug cause they ain't promised shit
Hungry-ass hooligans stay on that piranha shit
]
"I never sleep, cause sleep is the cousin of death" -> 
"I ain't the type of brother made for you to start testin" -> 
I peeped you frontin, I was in the Jeep
Sunk in the seat, tinted with heat, beats bumpin
Across the streat you was wildin
Talkin bout how you ran the Island in eighty-nine
Layin up, playin the yard with crazy shine
I cocked a baby 9 that nigga grave be mine, clanked him
What was he thinkin on my corner when it's pay me time
Dug em you owe me cousin somethin told me plug him
So dumb, felt my leg burn, then it got numb
Spun around and shot one, heard shots and dropped son
Caught a hot one, somebody take this biscuit 'fore the cops come
Then they came askin me my name, what the fuck
I got stitched up and went through
Left the hospital that same night, what
Got my gat back, time to backtrack
I had to drop so how the fuck I get clapped
Black was in the Jeep watchin all these scenes speed by
It was a brown Datsun, and yo nobody in my hood got one
That clown nigga's through, blazin at his crew daily
The 'Bridge touched me up severely hear me?
So when I rhyme it's sincerely yours
Be lightin L's sippin Coors, on all floors in project halls
Contemplatin war niggaz I was cool with before
We used to score together, Uptown coppin the raw
But uhh, a thug changes, and love changes
and best friends become strangers, word up
]
"Y'all know my steelo" -> 
"There ain't an army that could strike back" -> 
Thug niggaz
Yo, to them thug niggaz gettin it on in the world you know?
To them niggaz that's locked down
doin they thing survivin yaknowmsayin?
To my thorough niggaz, New York and world wide
Yo to the Queensbridge Militia
9-6 shit.. The Firm clique, Illmatic nigga
It Was Written though
It's been a long time comin
Y'all fake niggaz, tryin to copy
better come with the real though
Fake ass niggaz yo..
Bring the shit man, live man
Nine-six shit..
__SEPERATE__
Global warming between my legs, screams against the waves
Gave birth to thirteen daughters, so now we never run out of water
My skin layered in diamonds and sage
Left alone and confused, forces enslaved by days
Time keeps on whorin us
Ghetto saviors can't keep ignorin us
Flowers and flames, flutes from her fingers
Rifles pointed from her sac
or was it simply a bag of sticks and stones
Either way, she wore a compass on her head
Rains don't stop the grass from turnin red
Her hair was half perm, half dread
We gave up walking in a past-life and so we dance
Arms wrapped around my breath and choked me back to life
A new world wife, reflecting the sun and rolling dice
Symbol of the drama yet to come - too late to run
Time travelling was late
Watching was a blind man's mistake
All his assets melted right in front of his face
His right leg drabbed with demon paste
Shoes stayed angel laced
Never count your blessings with haste
Even a prophet can catch a case
Didn't realize how sweet the future might taste
Telepathically cutting through mental gates
Words were weapons against their hate
Shepherds search for stars in her hair
Her chest grew fermented like yeast
She broke her body like aged bread
He gave her truth from all the books he'd read
She wrote her poems inside the mud
Sacrificed her cervix to fix the future
Named their boys and spit truth inside his mouth
Read warm prophet, writing twisted scriptures inside her belly
Resurrected from bones and dirt
She made hard niggaz smile
Left her seeds inside the Earth
Gave hustlers and killers life's worth
This is the life we chose, remember who was here first
Find a reason why you curse
Gold rushed tongues by dreams too loose
Sporting electronic nooses
Hoeing humanity love-ticks over lust
Despite the damage to destiny you can't take the best of me
In God We Still Trust
__SEPERATE__
What's happenin brothers and sisters?
Welcome to our time
Afro-Angels hide my weapons in tangles
Black Star Spangled, fragile like hematite with the East oils I write
Despite the lack of sunlight, got my battle boots tight
Now that the government's gone, can't tell your left from your right
Winged assassins laughin while the New World's collapsin
Mother Earth's ribs crashed in, armed with cowries, I'm blastin
As the Earth rebels my womb swells
The birth of Black Magic, savin my people force of habit
You can't find if you ain't never had it
Spiritually crafted black-listed hair-twisted ghetto embargo lifted
Power-shiftin comb-fistin I predict Goddesses you runnin after witches
I kiss my fourteen stitches
Keep all my baby girl wishes
I predict all the oceans turn dry
Not one baby girl will cry as you attempt to grow broccoli from the desert
We will take our pregnant bodies, drink from underground rivers
Wash your face between our legs
While recreating humanity, we will summon yemanja
Search for our fertility, ban all pink and yellow pills
Ban all pink and yellow pills
I predict killing fields of ghetto armpatch anti-Hatch
Hate groups will be bombed
Childbirth becomes outlawed
Always will be branded numbered and logged
All paper money is gone
Confused scholars can interpret our scrolls
Your sky has holes
We know the young is old
Nastradamus tell us how the story gets told
__SEPERATE__
Coming from the shadow of the Iceland
We are Winchester Yankee "n" Nas Escobar
Pablo, What'z up pa?
What'z up pa? Keep it raw for ya
No doubt, P-R, Check it
Play your position, Focus on life see what you're missing
Reality, The tale or the caliver
45 nickels 9, Check the calendar
9-7 deep algebra, Black flaca
Ruled the world high, ??? with my ganster for single years
And rap words immulate my life for years
Autobiography a part of me
Portraits of the ill sh*t inside of me
Magnetic, Jigged up to my fatal wig
Any position I am, I find a way to live
Out of state, On the block, Or behind metal gate
Yo this heavyweight got cheddar to make
Smack your head off, Click wildling, Push thru
Puerto Rock warriors, Took you thru the drama
Escobaro, Pablo, Miliano, Papo take the world pronto
Word to mines, Genuine, Senor Juan at your table
Poison you, Mad fatal
Just the way it is when you let the hood raise you
Never let them hoes play you
Mental, Smart, Strong and stable
Trenta-Trenta, Me sesenta metrales letal violenta
Alimente-Mental de toda mi gente completa
Fundamenta es mi letra, I represent the instrumental
Rapida lenta, Winchester se la inventa en lo noventa
Liricas respuestas para preguntas que no contestan
Como el misterio, De cuando suena la trompeta
6-6-6 "yo" sera la marca de la bestia
Directo para tu frente o tu mano derecha
El infierno, Sobre la tierra
Socio, Que dice que en la calle tenia el jugo
Para cualqiera gatillo darle
Decia ??, Siempre vivira en mi vida en grande
Con tanta guilladeres ahora copera con lo federales
Se dejo llevar por la malda, El chico en todo momento
La envidia, Gatillo, Demonios que andan suerto
Tienen ojos y no miran como si tuvieran un bendaje
Nadie podra serrar mis ojos espirituales
Es para el gatillero que solo pienza en maltilleo
Gapea un par de saco para picharle al nevuleo
De momento se siente, Que lo pueden cojer dormido
Tiene que estar alerta haci que le mete al perico
De momento siente una persecucion enorme
No lo aguanta, Corre y lo baja con la ??
Entonce empieza el problema cuando le suertan el fulete
Lo patea el rifle, La misma historia al inocente
Y recuerdo las palabras de quien me tuvo en su ??
Tu futuro depende de la siembra de tu sobra
Cada cual es reponsable de su cosecha y la persona
Que siembra el gatillo su fruto sera la muerte
Espada muere, Al que tambien espada hiere
Impacta y mata, Lirica intocable intacta
No tengo enemigo, El unico es el Satan
Canta, Cosa que no sea ??
Quien es el ganster, Eres? What'z up? What'z up? What'z up?
"Yeah, Ya know the deally
Ya know the deally, When the cops get peally
For really, Check the drilly"
"Yo" ride expeditions, Diamonds, New York finest
Large gods, See the god Nas is time less
Mac official, Black pistol, Rap hit you
Much love to Puerto Rico, We rolling with you
Winchester here to bless you
9-7 Big Nas love out to P-R
And we out like that, Keep the gaps cock back
"Winchester and Nas, On the rise baby
P-R to Q-B, Word up"
"P-R, N-Y-C, Winchester Yankee
Para Puerto Rico, Boricua Guerrero
Soy valioso como Bernie Williams en este juego
"Ha, Ha, No doubt pa"
"Otra, Otra, Otra.."
__SEPERATE__
Uh, yeah turn it up, check it out
The transition from a young fool
Broke, still on his neck, he hung jewels
Live his life in the ghetto where guns rule
It was cool wasn't mad, I had to take out cabs
Made my first LP afford an h-class, my face gassed '94
Sold out in every record store
Local hood rats who wouldn't speak
Now I'm who they're checking for
Showing crazy love ran up on stage with 80 thugs
After the shows, my niggas robbed the bar and wrecked the clubs
Happy, no hating, more henny, more blunts circulating
My single in rotation on every radio station
Eyes popped when I drove my first ride on the block
Summertime, block parties, cookouts, I spend my knot
Truly niggas was fighting over who was closely to me
Happy with the new representative of QB
To hit the top first you have to gotta fall before you make it
With for 4 minutes of your time, watch me demonstrate it
 Samples]
This was the rise and fall of my fast lane style
I was the main event on the TV for a while
This was the rise and fall of my fast lane style
I was the main event on the TV for a while
Came alize in the winter some of us rise to great adventure
I've brung New York back to real rap Venice
New crib, diamond rings, killers on my team
Infinites for my girl for giving birth to my queen
3G's worth of chronic and weed, promoters were mad
I stopped doing shows to spend time in the street
Loot the crime, eventually sold my shine
Repo looking for my Lex, back then I wasn't buying
You can guess niggas started saying "With all the success
Why is your mom still in the project? " I answered them best
Fuck out my face, pistol on my car four clip
I read about Pablo Escobar and got on some shit
So called mans supplied my chips, I was fronting
Niggas thought I was risk and got mad 'cause they was pumping
My assumption, niggas want me pumped in the casket
Kept the gun the same three/fifth that a nigga got bagged with
 Samples]
Caught a case now, I'm home staring off into space
Flashbacks of all the jewelry, cars, crossing my face
Rappers I met, hoes in video cassette
No management, no more good life and no respect
Hearing crowds roar, crystal pouring mixed drinks
Haunted by the thoughts; the second year album sophomore jinx
Where did I fell? Death threats, woke up in cold sweats
Thinking about all these murders that know where I rest
From hanging with crazy cliques that's known to take shit
Bracelets, and all that beef now I'm involved, was paperless
My cars were auctioned off, now I catch rides with kidnap niggas
Who snatched babies off to get back figures, Lessons from heaven
Every night I slept with my weapon to guard my family for a minute
I forgot my profession, not from Columbia or Nicaragua
Don't distribute coke from Antigua, that shipped out to Panama
Pablo Escobar's bloody reign came to an end
Far from my life; a kid who made his fame from a pen
Hit the studio and change the game again
Wrote down all the pain within, top of the charts
Triple platinum, got the fake love back, money stacks, more plaques
Have you seen who I was? Just to know where I was at
Saw both sides of the game, all the ups and downs
This goes out to the future rap kings coming up now
 Samples]
__SEPERATE__
"This ain't for everybody. Y'all know who y'all are
Yeah you, y'all know who y'all are. These are our heroes."
Let's hear it, one for the coons on UPN 9 and WB
Who 'Yes Massa' on TV, what ever happened to Wheezy? The Red Fox's?
Never got Emmy's but were real to me
Let's hear it, two for the spooks who do cartwheels
'Cause they said they played they parts well
Now they claim caviar, hate that oxtail
Lambda Sigma Phi badge on lapel
Whitey always tell him, "Ooh, he speak so well"
Are you the one we look to, the decent Negro?
The acceptable Negro -- hell nah
But they say, "These are our heroes"
Uh, Massa used to breed us to be bigger to go play
Athletes of today in the NBA, make me proud
But there's somethin' they don't say
Keep gettin' accused for abusin' White pussay
From OJ to Kobe, uh let's call him Tobe
First he played his life cool just like Michael
Now he rock ice too just like I do
Yo, you can't do better than that?
The hotel clerk who adjusts the bathroom mat?
Now you lose sponsorships that you thought had your back
Yeah, you beat the rap jiggaboo, fake nigga you
You turn around then you shit on Shaq
Who woulda knew, Mr. Goodie-Two-Shoes
He love a little butt crack, got enough cash
Little kids with they bus pass who look up to you
To do something for the youth, stupid spoof
But you let them use you as an example
They would rep, but our heroes got they hands full
You Homey The Clown, bowtie, apple pie, Bo Jangles
But we love Bo Jangles, we know what he came through
But what's your excuse, duke? You talk Black
but your album sound like you give your nuts for a plaque
You don't ride for the facts like um, say Scarface
You don't know what you feel, y'all too safe
Election done came and went, y'all worked so hard for it
Huh, and in the end we all got dicked
These are our heroes, thanks a lot public school systems still rot
Still harassed by cops, snitches on blocks
Sellin they peoples out - some real folks with clout
Tavis Smiley, Michael Eric Dyson
Stokely Carmichael, let's try to be like them
Nicky Giovanni poetical black female
Jim Brown to the people who sing well from
Fela to Miriam Makeba
The mirror says you are the next American leader
So don't be, acceptin new 'We are the World' records
These pickaninnies get with anything to sell records
Cause it's trendy to be the conscious MC
But next year, who knows what we'll see?
Ha-Ha, these are our heroes
 "Yeah, I wanna give a special shoutout to the -- y'know
the crew doin' they thing out there reppin' us hard
Big up to Tiger Woods.  Yeah, ya don't stop.  Big up
to Cuba Gooding Jr.  Y'know, yeah, y'know.  Tay Diggs
what up my nigga.  Yeah, ha-ha.  And you don't quit
and ya don't quit, and ya don't stop and ya don't quit."
 "Yeah-Yeah, what you doin' for the hood though
homie? What you doin' for the hood, man? Look at
all that paper.  Drivin' around like a playboy in
my hood.  What type of shit is that?"
 "I'm outta here.  Please, excuse me, 'xcuse me -- please
Let me get to my limousine, I'm outta here.  I know, I
got a plane to catch.  And I love you back.  Ha-Ha
yeah yeah -- And I'm outta here.  A-ha-ha -- PEACE."
 "Come on nigga, give back to the hood.  Cocky
motherfucker!"
__SEPERATE__
Third grade, singin Star Spandled Banner 
Using proper manners, learned to handle anger
Animal behavior 
Later on my block rockin wit my jocks on 
Eating Bon Ton cheese popcorn, hummin a KISS rock song 
Socks long to my knees 
Summer breeze runnin through the leaves 
Playin freeze tag, can I stay out, please dad? 
Can I hang wit my little gang out? 
Hearin shots rang out, heard my moms call my name out 
Come upstairs, run up stairs
Take a bath, shit stained underwears 
Wipe yourself wit paper 
Bad little ass in my bed at 8:30 
Wash my plate, ate dinner up late 
Gazing at the wall, prayin basketball 
Was my future for this young one 
Hooping in the sun, proud to be where I come from 
Later shootin guns fantasizing 
Fascinated by gold rope chains 
Looking back at my hood days but things ain't change 
 
"Nasty-Nasty-Nasty Nas is a rebel to America" 
"Lyrical professor, keep ya under pressure" 
"It's like that, you know it's like that" 
"Nas-Nas'll catch wreck", "You got the mad fat fluid"
 
Bumpy Johnson style, old timers, crocodile shoes 
Pinky rings, bank robbers wit two's, boss of wild crews 
Slacks overlapsed, apple jack hats, quarter field coats 
Cadillacs wit white walls and chrome wheel spokes 
They was organizing, investing in a piece of the hood 
They had drugs, bettin numbers, police understood 
They played the Cotton Club, red carpet, hoes on they arm 
Plush minks, pimped out gangstas, civil rights wasn't won 
E'ry Christmas they was Santa Claus 
Nixon was the anti-christ 
Bitches ass was bigger than sniffin nose candy white 
Listenin to Malcom speak, talcum powder shaving cream 
Layin back, barber chair, straight razor clean 
Babies is born, big families started to blossom 
Mad people just applied for apartments and got em 
Used to be rules to this game of hustlers and dealers 
From tommy guns to mac 10's 
QB's new born killers  
 
Yo everytime I turn around, niggas shot, niggas stabbed 
Winter nights, pregnant girls strugglin to get a cab 
Fiends lurkin, D's searchin, pat pockets
Kids quick to bed but they heads from gats poppin 
Queensbridge slingers hoppin out Benzes, don status 
Dope fiends got syringes, poppin out they arms sractchin 
I remember park jams 
Gazelles, perfect wave shell 
Adidas, smellin reefer way before purple haze 
Private stock bare, niggas wit ill walks like Mark Clare 
Hats tilted, wild niggas lickin shots in the air 
Me and Pop was there, through the years our names would switch 
Ain't nuttin changed but the names Nastradamus and Blizz 
What project is this? 
QB, Vernon and Tenth
12th Street, murderous pimps, hot as hell's heat 
What could you tell me, nigga's seen it all in this game 
When it's all said and done, just remember my name
__SEPERATE__
Uhh.. 
Q.B. since 1933 
To nine-six 
Check the shit
Nine-six
Escobar 600
Check the shit
My mindset, son got wet, I'm vexed really
They snatched off his Rolex, smacked his bitch silly
Why niggaz actin illy word to Will he bout to feel it
I feel it, he shoulda been dealt wit it
Them niggaz sour, they put to much flour in they coke
And got the nerve to wonder WHY THEY BROKE
While we was gleamin, niggaz was scheamin
Seen the ill Beamers beamin
Triple-beam and doublin cream, had em feenin
to get they fingers on the dosa, I called Sosa
Sosa, these niggaz hit the God, bring the toaster
Meet me in the 'Bridge I'm bout to go loca
Left my 'rat beggin me to stay and stroke her
He came through with two fly bitches, Venus and Vicious
wit two macs inside the Volvo, what up God, I'm still sober
I need some Henn' to bend me over
My nigga Hav got a soldier
It's gettin down it's goin down kid 
I heard he might not live, I'm holdin back tears
Told these broads, to put it in gear 
with two females that don't smile diggin they style yo
Whattup son, these niggaz done started somethin wild
You know the clique well, Ramel with the gold in his grill
Tried to get a name holdin the steel, I paid attention to the females
Maintain bitches when it get real
Sos' pulled me close and told me the deal
He said both hoes'll peel, spray shots and reload
and still handle the wheel, point em out smoke a Phil' then chill
I layed back Escobar status, knowin The Firm got it cornered
We on it, shit we was born wit
Spark the lye, Q.B.C. yo it's do or die
In this, business and trifeness
I finesse this, for R.D., we chef shit
Perfect shit, Albert Einstein minds connect wit
dangerous sons, step back let the tech lift
Lift you up, bless you wit a shorty then we set you up
Spark the lye, Q.B.C. yo it's do or die
In this, business and trifeness
We finesse this, for R.D., we chef shit
Perfect shit, Albert Einstein minds connect wit
dangerous sons, step back let the tech lift
Lift you up, bless you wit a shorty then we set you up
Hold it right there pull over
That nigga right there inside the Rover
I knew he'd be right here, I told ya
Let's get him now, look at him smile, ice Bulova
Polo pullover, big links and rockin boulders
He's stuntin, after he left my man like that
without a fair chance to fight back, BUT I'LL BE RIGHT BACK
He never seen us, Sos' gave the mac to Venus
and Vicious, lookin delicious, handle yo' bidness
and step to him, shake yo' ass try to screw him
Do what ya gotta do to get to him
A tight parasuco, with young faces
can turn niggaz Buttafuco, of all ages, they was amused
by the way they walked, way they talked
Only if they knew these girls'd spray New York
if they had to, heard him ask Venus, "Could I have you?"
He jumped out a Jeep, heard her tell him, "Don't grab Boo"
They started chattin, was only bout a minute, flat when
they jumped in the back of the Jeep laughin
We followed them pollyin, he thought the hoes were Somalian
Probably wanted to hit the Holiday Inn
I grabbed the phone and called the Mobb and them
We layed low about a hour or so, these bitches movin too slow
We both holdin, what if them wild hoes started foldin? 
Sosa, said say no more, we started rollin
Before we got in they must have shot him, security wildin
There the girls go, hurry up we out in
the 940, me Sosa and two shorties
The punk niggaz got murdered in the orgy
Q.B.C.
QueensBridge motherfucker
Ropin niggaz up
Cause our click is thick
Another day another dollar
More money, more murder
Fuck this shit, Q.B. up in the house
__SEPERATE__
"It's yours!" --> 
 Whose world is this?
 The world is yours, the world is yours
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
"It's yours!"
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
 The world is yours, the world is yours
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
I sip the Dom P, watchin Gandhi til I'm charged
Then writin in my book of rhymes, all the words pass the margin
To hold the mic I'm throbbin, mechanical movement
Understandable smooth shit that murderers move wit
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
The fiend of hip-hop has got me stuck like a crack pipe
The mind activation, react like I'm facin time like
'Pappy' Mason with pens I'm embracin
Wipe the sweat off my dome, spit the phlegm on the streets
Suede Timb's on my feets, makes my cypher, complete
Whether crusin in a six-cab, or Montero Jeep
I can't call it, the beats make me fallin asleep
I keep fallin, but never fallin six feet deep
I'm out for presidents to represent me 
I'm out for presidents to represent me 
I'm out for dead presidents to represent me
 Whose world is this?
 The world is yours, the world is yours
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
 Whose world is this?
 The world is yours, the world is yours
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
"It's yours!"
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
 The world is yours, the world is yours
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
To my man Ill Will, God bless your life
"It's yours!"
To my peoples throughout Queens, God bless your life
I trip we box up crazy bitches aimin guns in all my baby pictures
Beef with housin police, release scriptures that's maybe Hitler's
Yet I'm the mild, money gettin style, rollin foul
The versatile, honey stickin wild, golden child
Dwellin in the Rotten Apple, you get tackled
Or caught by the devil's lasso, shit is a hassle
There's no days, for broke days, we sell it, smoke pays
While all the old folks pray, to Je-sus' soakin they sins in trays
of holy water, odds against Nas are slaughter
Thinkin a word best describin my life, to name my daughter
My strength, my son, the star, will be my resurrection
Born in correction all the wrong shit I did, he'll lead a right direction
How ya livin large, a broker charge, cards are mediocre
You flippin coke or playin spit spades in strip poker
"It's yours!"
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
 Whose world is this?
 The world is yours, the world is yours
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
"It's yours!"
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
 Yo, the world is yours, the world is yours
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
"It's yours!"
 Break it down
I'm the young city bandit, hold myself down singlehanded
For murder raps, I kick my thoughts alone, get remanded
Born alone, die alone, no crew to keep my crown or throne
I'm deep by sound alone, caved inside in a thousand miles from home
I need a new nigga, for this black cloud to follow
Cause while it's over me it's too dark to see tomorrow
Trying to maintain, I flip, fill the clip to the tip
Picturin my peeps, now the income make my heartbeat skip
And I'm amped up, they locked the champ up, even my brain's in handcuffs
Headed for Indiana stabbin women like the Phantom
The crew is lampin big Willie style
Check the chip toothed smile, plus I profile wild
Stash through the flock wools, burnin dollars to light my stove
Walk the blocks wit a bop, checkin Danes plus the games
people play, bust the problems of the world today
"It's yours!"
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
 Whose world is this?
 The world is yours, the world is yours
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
"It's yours!"
It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
 Yeah... the world is yours, the world is yours
 It's mine, it's mine, it's mine
Whose world is this?
"It's yours!"
Break it down
Yea aight?
To everybody in Queens, the foundation
"It's yours!"
The world is yours
To everybody uptown, yo, the world is yours
"It's yours!"
The world is yours
To everybody in Brooklyn
Y'all know the world is yours	
"It's yours!"
The world is yours
Everbody in Mount Vernon, the world is yours
"It's yours!"
Long Island, the world is yours	
"It's yours!"
Staten Island, yea the world is yours
"It's yours!"
South Bronx, the world is yours
"It's yours!"
Aight
__SEPERATE__
"Who's world is this?" 
.....la la la, la la la
I sip the Dom P, watchin Gandhi til I'm charged
Writin in my book of rhymes, all the words pass the margin
To hold the mic I'm throbbin, mechanical movement
Understandable smooth shit that murderers move with
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
The fiend of hip-hop has got me stuck like a crack pipe
The mind activation, react like I'm facin time like
'Pappy' Mason with pens I'm embracin
Wipe the sweat off my dome, spit the phlegm on the streets
Air the Nikes on my feet, keep my cypher, complete
Whether crusin in a Sikh's cab, or Montero Jeep
I can't call it, beats make me fallin asleep
I keep fallin, but never fallin six feet deep
I'm out for presidents to represent me 
I'm out for presidents to represent me 
I'm out for dead fucking presidents to represent me
"Whose world is this?"
The world is yours
Disciple of the projects slash verbal murderer
"Whose world is this?"
Yeah the world is yours
To the philly bluntheads, crackpumping drug murderers
"Whose world is this?"
The world is yours
To my niggaz coming home from lockdown with new plans
"Whose world is this?"
@%*#, the world is mine
Holdin' a stolen cop's glock with G-notes in my hand
"Whose world is this?"
To my man Ill Will, God bless your life
To my peoples throughout Queens, God bless your life
My insight enlights vision
Words of wisdom, niggaz pay me intuition
To listen, to murder paragraphs of mysticism
Man plant seeds that brings forth multiple breeds
So many cultures in one planet but one culture's free
Son, I need weed to proceed
Change the flow speed and I'm getting vexed Guiliani and six six six
There's no days for broke days selling smoke pays
I toke the chocolate, potent phillies never roach spray
Shit is a hassel, the bridge is like a haunted castle
The mic's my religion, the system is the Devil's lassle
Hey yo, the trife life is the most influential
The colors on mens skins and pens is coincidental
How ya livin'? Large or broke uh
You're wasting time extortin papers from smokers
Cacthing court papers getting broker
The world is mine
Persona of late Tony Montana yet gettin' mine
"Whose world is this?"
The whole world is mine
Who want it, I never front it, I'm forever blunted, gettin' lye
"Whose world is this?"
Ante up with the lye 
Never stop, we don't stop 
The hennylo, puff a lye y'all 
Don't stop the hennylo 
Who puff the lye? 
Everyday, puff the lye plus the hennylo 
I'm the young city bandit, hold myself down singlehanded
For murder raps, I kick my thoughts alone, get remanded
Born alone, die alone, no crew to keep my crown or throne
I'm deep by sound alone, caved inside in a thousand miles from home
I need a new nigga, for this black cloud to follow
Cause while it's over me it's too dark to see tomorrow
Trying to maintain, I flip, fill the clip to the tip
Picturin my peeps, now the income make my heartbeat skip
And I'm amped up, they locked the champ up, even my brain's in handcuffs
Headed for Indiana stabbin bitches like the Phantom
The crew is lampin Ill Will style
Check the gold toothed smile, plus I profile wild
Stash through the fly clothes, burnin dollars to light my stove
Walk the blocks wit a bop, checkin dames plus the games
people play, I check the dames plus the games people play
bust the problems of the world today
"Who's world is this?" 
"La la la, la la la, la la la la la"
Yeah yeah, yeah Wizard, keep that lye in the air
Yo, I wanna give a shout out to the whole fuckin' Queens
My man Tipster on the boards, keepin' it real Lord
The Queensbridge nation, get it on
Fakin' no fuckin' jacks, fuck around and get your wig pushed back
And big shout out to my man Killa, ?? is on you
L.E.S. on another murder quest, '94 and we out
Keep the lye in the air, Hennessy everywhere
Keep the la la goin'...
__SEPERATE__
One, two
Check, one, two
One, two, who got more style, the son do
One, two
Check, one, two
One, two, who got more style, the son do
Check, one, two
Yo I'm hot like 95 Fahrenheit
On a summer night, tight spot where bodies rot
Rats drink from water drops, in the streets niggaz
Little kids scared cops, wit red dots
Philosophical gangsta, where violent priors
Goin back like black and white TV's wit pliers
Leanin on broke down cars, wit flat tires
Flash iron, or anybody tryin on the blocks I'm supplyin on
Mighty call, my peeps, tie ballons up
And swallow 'em and the penal got goons, lots of 'em
Cops see them and run, don't want no drama
Certain parts of the streets, the beast don't want a part of
Mortar, hood haunted like the Dakota
Where John Lennon was shot up, but he sang for peace
He begged for freedom, hanged wit wild Jamicians
From Kingston, who drink Irish Moss
Listenin to Peter Winston, Machintosh
Lightning hits the top of the church steeple
When I'm writin, semi-automatic no hyphen
It's frightening.... 
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
Understandable smooth shit, that murderers move wit
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
Understandable smooth shit, that murderers move wit
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
Understandable smooth shit, that murderers move wit
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
Understandable smooth shit, that murderers move wit
I take summers off, cause I love winter beef
Started '87, wit the shotty in the sheet
Three-quarter length beige, dressed to kill
Bust a shell at the ground, pellets hit the crowd
Nobody like a snitch, everybody shut they mouth
Rule which car heart, gun powder stains
Smellin like trees, set some mill on the brain
Skeemin on ya girls, bamboozled on ya chain
Got ill up on the train, twistin off a cap
Of a English in my vain, might of pushed you on the tracks
Death crack fiends, who can't speak, scream noises
Cause you bought a drummer sooked, from one of my boys, it's
.... Just another day in the hood
And I'm, wit some wild brothers, up to no good
We saw the movies, like Tony Montana, and 'em
But our style was let them piled in, we robbin 'em
Money dudes, make 'em come up out they shoes
Run they jewels, word is bond, where my man Nino goin
And I had to make a song, speakin on my old life
For the thief's who come out at night
One, two
Check, one, two 
One, two
Check, one, two
One, two, who got more style, the son do
__SEPERATE__
Yo
Ha, Ha, Ha
DPP
Check, one two, one two
Who got more style than Son do?
None do 
Yeah, this is history right here 
Yo, Nas, Rising Son
Queensbridge to London
Let's go..
Yo, Yo
This is the Thief's Theme
For the underground criminal street teams
Street dream chasing young hungry thugs that seek cream
Crack fiends and hatch schemes, knife-point robbery
Broad day blindeys, night-time thuggery
Sun down shinanigins, move without shadow...
...like ninjas, cat burglars, no fiasco
No commotion, make moves like locomotion
Crack-sport ambush, get the man bringing the coke in
Warehouse crime rate, mans throw they vans up
Bang job, "Freeze, everybody put your hands up"
Cash is nightmare, gun in ya faceplate
"It's not even ya money, don't make me put one in ya face, mate"
Thieves running this place, world trade, eight fare
Slave rift flashbacks; Bush killer, hate Blair!
Wish Mars was a mile away, cos I would escape there
On a Skyway railroad, to stick you from my tray fair, bitch...
Yeah, you know like when you kill somebody in Street Fighter
Uah, uah, uah, uah 
One, two
Check, one, two
One, two, who got more style, the son do
One, two
Check, one, two
One, two, who got more style, the son do
Check, one, two
Yo I'm hot like 95 Fahrenheit
On a summer night, tight spot where bodies rot
Rats drink from water drops, in the streets niggaz
Little kids scared cops, wit red dots
Philosophical gangsta, wit violent priors
Goin back like black and white TV's wit pliers
Leanin on broke down cars, wit flat tires
Flash iron, anybody tryin on, the blocks I'm supplyin on
Madicon, my peeps, tie ballons up
And swallow 'em and the P now got goons, lots of 'em
Cops see them and run, don't want no drama
Certain parts of the streets, the beast don't want a part of
Martyr, hood haunted like the Dakota
Where John Lennon was shot up, but he sang for peace
He begged for freedom, hanged wit wild Jamicians
From Kingston, who drink Irish Malts
Listenin to Peter Winston, Machintosh
Lightning hits the top of the church steeple
When I'm writin, semi-automatic no hyphen
It's frightening.... {*scratches*}
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
Understandable smooth shit, that murderers move wit
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
Understandable smooth shit, that murderers move wit
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
Understandable smooth shit, that murderers move wit
The thief's theme, play me at night, they won't act right
Understandable smooth shit, that murderers move wit
I take summers off, cause I love winter beef
Started '87, wit the shotty in the sheep
Three-quarter length beige, dressed to kill
Bust a shell at the ground, pellets hit the crowd
Nobody like a snitch, everybody shut they mouth
Woolrich, Carhart, gun powder stains
Smellin like trees, sensimille on the brain
Skeemin on ya girls, bambooze or ya chain
Got ill up on the train, twistin off a cap
Of a English in my vain, might of pushed you on the tracks
Deaf crack fiends, who can't speak, scream noises
Cause she bought a jum of soap, from one of my boys, it's
.... Just another day in the hood
And I'm, wit some wild brothers, up to no good
We saw the movies, like Tony Montana, and 'em
But our style was let them pile then, we robbin 'em
Money dudes, make 'em come up out they shoes
Run they jewels, word is bond, where my man Nino goin
And I had to make a song, speakin on my old life
For the thief's who come out at night
One, two
Check, one, two 
One, two
Check, one, two
One, two, who got more style, the son do
__SEPERATE__
This bitter land
Watered with my soul
The fruit it bears
Leaves me so cold
This bitter land
Does nothing for love
This bitter land
Brings pain from above, oh-oh
Yeah, running on the concrete across the train tracks
The devil is behind me
In the ghetto where's you'll find me, it's where I stays at
Cop shot us up, he get a medal then retire
But it never will define me
Write a letter to the president, whoever in control of the society
Tell 'em stop riding me, stop driving us into a suicidal ideology
Tryna feed my seeds
Getting high on weed, study my degrees
Stay fly, getting paper
With some dead white people faces in the circle of spaces around the green
I'm a lean, taking Percs as a bit of Earth
Is a nigga cursed? Am I blessed? See what I mean
It's a test, life is a test
Life is like a hood, hard
Trying not to fall between the cracks
In the cracks it's so dark, and the dark
Seems more appealing than the light in the land
Where you gotta fight
Catch a body in the night, we need a plan
To survive, to survive the land
Survive the storm, when it comes through
Either you're busy living or busy dying, look what it's come to
Look what it's come to, so what you're gonna do?
This bitter land is far too real
This bitter land, it does not heal
Cause in the land skies are grey
But we fight the storms that come our way
A boy who strives to be a man
Must push to lead with all he can
Oh, this bitter land
Oh, bitter land
Oh, oh, oh, oooh
This bitter land can't stop my fight
This bitter land
:]
Look what it's come to
So what you gonna do?
__SEPERATE__
I want you to close your eyes
And vision the most beautiful place in the world
If you in the hood on the ghetto street corner
Come on this journey
The best journey
Acres of land and swimming pools and all that
Check it out
I'm capable of anything, my imagination can give me wings
To fly like doves over the streets watchin' many things
Kids walkin' home from school on drug block missionaries
Pass out papers that read: Love God
See faces, cases, judges, juries, masons, lawyers and cops
I watch because every thugs face is my mirror
But this was one in particular 
This kid he was the vintage stick em up pro
16 years old, did his jail sentence, nowhere to go
Every mornin calls his comrad to come and get him to smoke
He insane, already gone mad
Blames himself for his setbacks
Dangerous street corners where his sets at
Slang from dust to dawn, detectives act like they maniacs
Chasin' him, his ass was flarin'
Smokin' like a chimney, on really, of course he not carin'
He need a place to go to keep his mind expandin'
I give him a helpin' hand, bring him out to Thugz Mansion
Every corner, every city
There's a place where life's a little easy
Little Hennessy, laid back and cool
Every hour, cause it's all good
Leave all the stress from the world outside
Every wrong done will be alright 
Nothin but peace, love 
And street passion, every ghetto needs a thug mansion
Dear momma don't cry, your baby boy's doin good
Tell the homies I'm in heaven and they ain't got hoods
Seen a show with Marvin Gaye last night, it had me shook
Drippin peppermint Schnapps, with Jackie Wilson, and Sam Cooke
Then some lady named Billie Holiday
Sang sittin there kickin it with Malcolm, 'til the day came
Little LaTasha sho' grown
Tell the lady in the liquor store that she's forgiven, so come home
Maybe in time you'll understand only God can save us
When Miles Davis cuttin lose with the band
Just think of all the people that you knew in the past
that passed on, they in heaven, found peace at last
Picture a place that they exist, together
There has to be a place better than this, in heaven
So right before I sleep, dear God, what I'm askin
Remember this face, save me a place, in thug's mansion
A place where death doesn't reside, just thugs who collide
Not to start beef but spark trees, no cops rollin by
No policemen, no homicide, no chalk on the streets
No reason, for nobody's momma to cry
See I'm a good guy, I'm tryin to stick around for my daughter
But if I should die, I know all of my albums support her
This whole year's been crazy, asked the Holy Spirit to save me
Only difference from me and Ossie Davis, gray hair maybe
Cause I feel like my eyes saw too much sufferin
I'm just twenty-some-odd years, I done lost my mother
And I cried tears of joy, I know she smiles on her boy
I dream of you more, my love goes to Afeni Shakur
Cause like Ann Jones, she raised a ghetto king in a war
And just for that alone she shouldn't feel no pain no more
Cause one day we'll all be together, sippin heavnly champagne
What angels saw, with golden wings in thug's mansion
__SEPERATE__
Yo, my man was regulatin on niggas he used to thug with
Older niggas in this murder game, drug czars
BM, Jaguars, they cash was large
Since he was wild, they let him in
He did a crazy number of things
To put himself deeper under they wing
It didn't take long for duke to get on
Studied they movements - who would kill, who was strong
Studied like a student, got it bloody, he was shootin
Drivin they cars, robbin connects
Drivin his Lex, keys was movin
Young don, now they know they weakness
They never seen it comin
Son was on some real take over the streets hit
Now he got his own crew of young guns clickin now
Richer now, now they run shit, see how it flips around?
Dudes be, comin from bids thinkin shit is different
Cause the streets move fast, you blink, you could miss it
I just sit back and, think of my last 20 years
6 pack, gunnin my years, jet black, blunt in my ear
Real relaxed, readin real loves stories like
Ceaser and Cleopatra, we need another actress to play her
Cause Liz Taylor's hot, but the Egyptian queen
On the movie screen needs to be portrayed in a proper flava
Hopped in the shower, threw on the boxers with the baby oil
Baby powder, night owl, movin to later hours, only
Fuckin with kings, niggas official
If you phony, come in the circle, niggas'll diss you
We converse on the state of hip hop
We share the same views and feelings
He sling cain, crib costin 2 million
He plan to leave the streets forever
But niggas that wanted him left him 
Dead in the streets 'fore I can tell him
__SEPERATE__
Tribal war
We nuh want no more a dat 
Every man deserve to earn 
And every child deserve to learn, now 
Tribal war 
A nuh dat we a defend 
Every man deserve a turn 
Like a flame deserve to burn 
Man what happened to us? 
Geographically they moved us 
From africa 
We was once happiness pursuers 
Now we back stabbing, combative and abusive 
The african and arab go at it they most muslim 
Used to be moving in unison 
Disputes would end 
Bounty hunters and grape street get cool again 
Some standard housing 
Got the young running rampant 
Wilding, for a phantom 
He can style in 
Mask on his face 
Grabbing his luger 
Saying, 'gnobody move or I'll shoot ya'
Man you're expiring 
Catch 25 and he does it like a man 
He sides with black, 
White pride and mexican 
Survive the best he can 
Strap a shank to his thigh 
Why do we all collide? 
Why do the young die? 
Extortion, murder and burglary 
Tattoos his chest 
Says his enemies don't deserve to breathe
Tribal war 
We nuh want no more a dat 
Everyone deserve to earn 
And every child deserve to learn, lord 
Tribal war 
A nuh dat we a defend 
Each and every man deserve a turn 
Like a flame deserve to burn 
I drink poison 
Then I vomit diamonds 
I gave you mandela, black dalai lamas 
I gave you music 
You enthused in my kindness 
So how dare you reduce me to donny imus 
Timeless in case we never been acquainted 
Flyness who made it 
It gets duplicated 
Mindless violence 
Well let me try to paint it 
Here's the 5 steps 
In hopes to explain it 
One! 
Its me and my nation against the world 
Two! 
Then me and my clan against the nation 
Three! 
Then me and my fam' against the clan 
Four! 
Then me and my brother we no hesitation 
Uh! 
Go against the fam' until they cave in 
Five! 
Now who's left in this deadly equation? 
That's right, it's me against my brother 
Then we point a kalashnikov 
And kill one another 
Tribal war 
We nuh want no more a dat 
Everyone deserve to earn 
And every child deserve to learn 
Tribal war 
A nuh dat we a defend 
Every man deserve a turn 
Like a flame deserve to burn 
Man a war tribal 
Over colors 
Over money, over land, and over oil, and over god 
And over idols, and even lovers 
Over breakfast, over dinner, over suppers 
Over jungle, over rema, over buckers 
Over brooklyn, over queens, and over rutgers 
Over red, and over blue, and over chuckers 
Over red and over blue and under covers 
Tribal trouble 
The drive by s double 
Cause the youth dem nah go war 
And go fight with knuckle 
The two sides scuffle 
Vietnam nah go a war 
With no more kung fu nun chuckle 
Missile and shuttle 
Huh 
And the queen of england and uncle sam 
Dem a flex dem muscle 
The tribal hustle 
Blood diamond poodle 
Survival struggle 
Tribal war 
We nuh want no more a dat 
Everyone deserve to earn 
Every child deserve to learn 
Tribal war 
A nuh dat we a defend 
Each and every man deserve a turn 
Like a flame deserve to burn
__SEPERATE__
1 A.M., I'm at my best
Twistin' trees at my rest
Melt with hash, sippin' Heiny, hittin' states in a G.S.
With my grimeys, - blowin' up throughout the 90's
Stayin' lit with the Chocolate Armoretta plus a dime piece
Takin' Gortex steps, 'cause - gets hot,
Pistols pop, some you hear, some you know when you drop
Twistin off the bottle top, contemplate, fake the plot
While - walk around with' all they got in one knot
For real, I build a mini-Israel, others the fish scale
Like the Red Sea, deep and deadly, though I'm a sit still
Imagine being gassed up, your time passed up
Thinking you Lord sippin wine out of brass cup your last supper's
Served, without Grace son about face
I hung a nun in '91 to captivate the rap race
Straight from the pro's or the ject's, the nine's or the tech's
Chapter One, today's Math, 'True Dialect'.
__SEPERATE__
It's like a cold story repeated over and over
In the winters of my mind
This shit be real, man
Shit's crazy out here
Yo yo, yo what up y'all?
That's my niggas over there. Word
If you scared to take chances, you'll never have the answers
I could tell the future of a dude how his stance is
Wonder will he shoot then you should study where his hands is
Is he gonna cock it and pop it? His waistband big
But he don't have that thing in him, slangin' just ain't in him
Body language is off, he's soft
But soft niggas all a sudden start dumpin', frontin'
Cause you fell away; my niggas say the eyes is a giveaway
One look could tell me if you really came to kill me
Be the quiet nigga lookin', layin' with the milli
Who dat over there, creepin'? Who homie by the tree?
Better safe than sorry, look at p-noid me
Few machine guns close, we could squeeze all three
Be a cold day in hell 'fore they creep on me
It's a lesson every premonition
Lotta niggas killed 'cause they wasn't payin' attention.
Listen
I want a bitch I can trust
Some niggas I can trust
Accountants lookin' over my figures I can trust
A lawyer that's fightin' for my decisions I can trust
Damn my nigga trust, I can never get enough
A Ruger I can trust, shooters I can trust
Goons that know how to spot out a Judas I can trust
And if I can't trust you, the fuck is you here for?
Some of you niggas' true colors becoming clear more
It's been so long, can't remember how we begun this war
This is a ever-lasting thunderstorm, 'cause guns went off
I see ya moms she still speak,
She don't know I ain't cool wit her son no more
It's old shit, see forever we holdin' this grudge
Takes real men to squash beef, end it with hugs
We buried our dead, been years
Why should I worry 'bout him
Constantly watchin' my back
Plus niggas tellin' I dread
Another day I put a family in black
Though I be calm and relaxed
Though I know somehow it will come back
Even if I'm in the right, 'cause still a life is a life
What was it worth to see you covered in dirt?
It's quite redundant, whether you the hunter or the hunted
Mother's cry, no statute of limitation on a homicide
Just tattoos of my niggas' names. I wonder will it change?
Let's ride
It's rare I listen to niggas who never been in my position
A caterpillar can't relate to what an eagle envisions
From the mind of a man who went at it with killers
Sit down little man, let me school you in hood business
Seen a lotta niggas blow, lotta dreams folded
Some wasn't humble, ate too much, got bloated
Ain't too much left to buy, bought it I'm loaded I guess
Lear jets - I ask myself do I need love or success?
They say the artist that truly suffer his stuff is the best
'Cause his heart bleed on his sleeve, pain pistols and sex
Remember spraypaintin' the word "Fresh" and then staring at it
Older folks angry, pointin', swearin' at it
Buildings I sprayed, nowadays drive the Maclaren past it
Same old man from years ago told me life is short
So from infant to geriatric, trust ya own judgment.
Live with it and love it
__SEPERATE__
"The unauthorized copy. Dedication to my children, my child
Destiny Jones. To my niece and nephews, Suree, Malik, Jabari
The world is yours. Acknowledgements: First off, I wanna
thank God. And I wanna thank everybody for helping me out
with this. Couldn't do it without you. Chapter 1."
January 28, 1968
Born into this world as William Griffin The Great
Chapter 1, Winedance Long Island
Scientific rhymin' invented a new sound when he met with
Eric Barrier from East Sandhurst
The melody they created was the first
Burst on the scene, 1986 with Clap To This
'87 dropped a classic disc
The facts is the tracklist was like four
The vocals, the beats -- according to Marly Marl
Recorded in my hometown Queensbridge
That's why it's so relative
This biography was unauthorized
I spit it how it was given to author Nas
William changed his name at sixteen to Rakim Allah
'Cause Clarence 13X had New York on lock
Gods on every block, jams in every park
I remember hearin' Curtis Blow saying
"It can't get better than this"
'Til Run DMC blew my brains to bits
From leather coats to shell toes to the stan smiths, to Dapper Dan kicks
First million-dollar deal ever in rap, 18th Letter did that
From 41st & Broadway to Uni to MCA
We followed the leader to Harlem's Apollo Theatre
Supreme rapped and the 50 that don't rap
Forte Green, Queens, Long Island wolfpack
Paid In Full posse, hot they was on
And Ra had his firstborn
With the next line I'ma be easy
His wisdom's name is Fifi
EPMD put a record out, was dope
Tension spread, and I quote "Smack me and I smack you back"
Sounded like the answer to the I Ain't No Joke track
For a second it ain't look good
Little tension buzzin' from Winedance to Brentwood
Misunderstood, all forgot by sixteen when I met Freddy Foxx
Totin' burners, the whole coast's most concern was
How was Rakim's flow, made Christians convert with Islamic ways
Let The Rhythm Hit 'Em was the third LP
A sophisticated mean one, before similar voices were King Son
A few others, but sooner or later, the game was Ra's kingdom
At sixteen, son was watchin' him, mesmorized
Respect, not jockin' him, was so amazin', besides
He came on the stage with lasers in his eyes
Walk with me now
"Unauthorized biography of Rakim. Epilogue: Mother was
a jazz singer. Nephew to R & B legend Ruth Brown
Discography: Paid In Full, Follow The Leader, Let
The Rhythm Hit 'Em, Don't Sweat The Technique. That's
the end of the group. Went off to solo. Dropped the
R, then the 18th Letter, and I think, somethin', The
Master. Was signed to Aftermath, scheduled to release
an album Oh My God with Dr. Dre. The album was
dismantled because of creative differences. Thee end
to the new beginning. Yeah. Next book, KRS1. Peace."
__SEPERATE__
Real conversation for that ass
 Huh
 What you said, can't hear you man
 Speak the fuck up
 Word 
 
Nastradumas, astrologic, know when I rep
Flow when I'm set, got the chips to a lotus my whip
Gold on my neck was once a code of respect
For high rollers and vets
Now its loads of baguettes, prefer a mack-10 over a tech
No matter sober or wet, I smack soldiers, cadets
Trees that might eject my hype back
Famous phrase "Nigga light that"
Hoes you fuck, ask you where your ice at, dun
Its all about playboys, when we was young
Can only get tongue, then finally we can cum
Busting in hoes, guzzling 4's
Crack blitz, '86, you turn hustling pro
From bottles, to seven in your hand
To fake pepsi's to get to the crack, unscrew the can
Gleam blunted, seeing 100's, stacks of boy with a lean on it
We got it if the fiends want it
The whole block singing the same theme "Don it"
Fuck it, too many crabs in the bucket
If its ice work, I'm gonna truck it
You gotta love it, you gotta love it
 
 fuck it
 you gotta love it
 fuck it
 you gotta love it
 fuck it
 you gotta love it
  
 
Some girls get too emotional, fanatic extremist
Get pulsive with malice insentitives, the foulest of bitches
Hung up my riches, her childest wishes
Be suspicious of those sleeping with fishes, them hoes
Conspicuous and it shows, tricking this dough
Kicking this flow, slip in a new fo'
So when your click roll, I let my clips go, Niggas on opposite polls
I got that confident soul, for those locked in a hole
Inhuman, living hostile opposed
To living on the streets, proper from my top to my toes
Aeropostale my clothes, Vernon niggas in suburbans with liquor
Preposterous foes, frantically foul niggas
See niggas in blast, there goes a loud difference
Coke sniffing, tapping 13 year old chickens
You can't be a kingpin when you snitching
Regardless, we still make you a target
We shoot you and chill, chrome objects
Hit you in your projects, its street anomics
This rhyme is edited, credited through ebonics
Miserable cats, hunger painting
Get off your ass, stop complaining
My crew be in Montego Bay margariting 
While you home, waiting your arraignment
This thug life you claimed it, I make millions from entertainment 
Now back in the hood, certain cats they wanna kill me
They ice grill me, but on the low, niggas feel me
You gotta love it, you gotta love it
 
 fuck it
 you gotta love it
 fuck it
 you gotta love it
__SEPERATE__
Uh..
Pacino life, G a roll, casino dice
at the Mirage, Vegas strip, neon lights
Gamblers, puffin cigars, couples and stars
Flashin cameras, dealers, shufflin cards
Spent the weekend, already miss New York and it's odd
cause I'm the first to say it got too many hustlers who rob
I never hang out, when we do we bust the four-five
cause shells comin back at us while we jump in the ride
Flyin, duckin, our bitches in the club cluckin
Tellin my wife who I was dancin with like I was fuckin
Flew back, Monday evening from the bottom where the sun was beamin
to the concrete jungle of cement
Limousine's from LaGuardia airport, sleepin
Told my dogs peace, kept in movin, I was beat when
got to my crib, where the hell my keys went?
Ringin the bell, heard a yell but wasn't sure
Dropped my luggage to the ground, put my ear to the door
Slow music, H-Town, no that's down low
My baby's, drop Mercedes is parked, I creep around yo
to the back, she must be inside and can't hear
Probably upstairs, in the mirror, doin her hair
I walked in through the back door entrance
Shocked it was unlocked, when I walked in, I smelled incense
chased by a weed aroma, empty Guinnesses
and lipstick marks on like three empty Coronas
A pair of blue jeans on the carpet; size 12 Timberlands
Somethin swingin on the ceilin fan, I stopped it
Swingin slower and slower..
On the last swing I saw it was a G-string and heard laughin
Thought about my nine-side Glock but somethin made me disregard it
Started my way up to where the noise and music was at
Froze, I couldn't react
Bedroom door opened a crack, seen wifey layin with some nigga
mumblin shit, he had one hand on her ass
and she was rubbin his dick, toastin wine glasses
Cherry scented candles was lit, couldn't handle the shit
Searchin for words I found none, without a sound
I left the house with a sick smile and took my gun
Now I'm out buggin, whylin, what I'm gon do?
Call my man Horse, meet me outside, I'm comin through
I thought you loved me
I thought you cared for me
I thought you needed me
Did you believe in me?  
Got up with Horse, showed a look on my face was mad lost
I ain't know whether to cry or just, try to laugh it off
"Son you home early -- they wiped you out that quick?"
I said, "Nah," showed him the plastic with nine in the clip
Hopped in the whip, popped in the disc, pressed play
To the Grand Central, from the Van Wyck Expressway
I said, "Bet you'll never guess in a million years
what I just saw happenin -- and probably still is
Snuck in my crib - some nigga fuckin my wiz
I saw dem, they ain't see me, I ducked and I slid
I'ma grab shorty, I need you to grab the nigga for me"
Just when I thought I found love, she shitted on me
Shopped in Vegas, a present, for our engagement
20 G's on a ring I would have hit her today with
My surprise couldn't match the one she had for me
We pulled up, he was walkin out the house backwardly
Parked in the back of my house, they couldn't see us
Ran to the side of my house, cocked the heater
Walked to the front when I talked he had junk
Bitch tried to slam the door shut, got caught in Horse foot
Shot the Spanish kid in the rib, drug him in
Grabbed her face, say goodbye to your undercover friend
One between the eye, she's died, by mistake
Must've held the gat too tight, pointed at her face
Heard somebody knock -- Horse helped me hide the bodies
Heard si-rens, I guess we goin out we out like kamikazes
We surrounded, red lights flashin, who's inside?
Came out a bullhorn, I'm contemplatin suicide
Horse asked me for the Mac, he gave me dap, one love
Cocked the strap, then he ran out the back
Mad shots couldn't tell what was goin on
Sat on the floor near my dead girl, put her in my arms
Pulled her ring out my pocket I was savin
Put it on her ring finger cocked the glock, and started prayin
to Muhammad and Allah, the most beneficial
through you, all things are possible, I know you're listenin
I never meant for this to happen, I never dreamed
this'd be my fate, such a grotesque, murder scene
On that note, same time, the cops busted in
Kissed my lady, her blood on my lips, I said "Amen"
Put the nine to my head, pulled the hammer, held her close
Squeeze the toast, said to her, "Now unto God, we elope"
.. we elope ..
__SEPERATE__
Uhh, oooooooooooooh baby, baby
Keep it thug, and keep yo' heat, na nah nah nah nah
Now slowly, thinkin of all the things that oppose me
I think of kings who died and rappers out to dethrone me
For they crown they head is cut off, bodies is laid
Dead in the street, it's so fuckin pitiful
First they love you, could be the bitch that even live with you 
Mad at your riches, now she switched, turned miserable
Cause she wanna dress like Bonnie, Robin and Crystal do
But Crystal's single, Bonnie's broke and her niggaz too 
I can do bad by myself; went from rags to wealth
From Jags to Bentleys to, plenty ass bitches
Can't keep they hands to theyself no more
I'm like, Hugh Hefner, you lesser, you just a
Wanna be me, you can't you faggot, you bitch
You coward, you clown, you just wanna be down
So you - wanna be me, you bitch, you phony
You clone me, you wanna be son, I'm the one and only
But you - wanna be me, you suckers, you weak
You flunkies, you fake, you couldn't come close on my worst day
But you - wanna be me, I burn you and learn you a lesson
Concernin this mic profession, turn your direction
You can't be me, not in your wildest fantasy
It's childish; should I have to resort to violence?
Pay me a half a million, I'll consult your album
And show you how to stay off my dick
That's the thing I hate the most, can't even call you a man
When you gotta call out my name to get you some fans
No talent, you need direction; you a pussy with a yeast infection
You unlucky, I'm your fuckin C-section
Plus I'm the last real nigga alive
Toast glass, Ill Will, the label get high
Realize, how many classics I gave you
Perhaps if you think back you'll realize that I made you
You can't be me, I'm tryin to walk a straight line
Why they tryin to take mine?  I'm past +8 Miles+ of every state line
Eating, alligators and, hummingbird hearts
At the player's ball, Brianni suits, y'all birds watch
As real millionaire, shit'll take place
Evil as Hitler's hate-race people
This is God son, and I've come from the God under pure peace
To represent the streets, you'll see that my plan
is not to destroy your man
But to bring more to mankind and teach
Every MC reach for your pens and papers
Lesson one be creative; what you made of junior?
Cause soon you'll be a grown man with the mic in your hand
And understand, to battle Nas not in your plan
I'm the last real nigga alive, understand that
And you my offspring, the boss sting
A bulletproof Porsche things, hard for you to understand that
Nas the king, where my bricks, where my band at?
Play me a gangster's theme, while you entertain me
If I ain't cryin laughin, to the lions, throw your ass in
What the fuck was you niggaz thinkin?
Guns'll clutch if I get a inklin that you comin for the kingpin
But I laugh at you cowards, ha ha ha
Take me out, try try try, but you
You can't be me
__SEPERATE__
One...two...yeah...huh...Nasir
Baby girl won't you come and hold my hand
Won't you come and chill out with the Virgo
Hey girl, just come and hold my hand
Won't you come and just chill with the Virgo
We sippin' on Merlot
You ain't got be my girl though
I'll drop you off at Willoughby and Myrtle 
Smash with the Virgo
Ain't got to take your shirt off
But see me convince your homegirl though
Uh, she says some life is too hard
She says that she wanna come build and with the god
Promise me that she gonna play her part
Cause what I spit gets straight to her heart
And she damn fine, feet hammertime
Damn if I mind
Long as the butt bubble in back of your waistline
I don't waste time, I gotta get-get on it
Just you and me, two glasses, sippin' Patron
In the club scene where I met Miss Green Eyes
She walked by asking me "Are you Nas?"
"Why?"
"If you was I'd be totally T.W.I"
"What's that?"
"Totally With It. T.W.I"
"Ha, well here I am"
"Yep, I'm the man"
"Bartender, put a Cosmo in that girl hand"
So here we standin' before I begin
Homegirl made a knot out of the cherry stem
Tongue skills, yea I like that
Now we on the right track
Straight to my Phantom called "Africa Black"
Ever since then, she been yappin' her track
Told her friends now they hollerin' behind her back
Sing
Baby girl won't you come and hold my hand
Won't you come and chill out with the Virgo
Hey girl, just come and hold my hand
Won't you come and just chill with the Virgo
We sippin' on Merlot
You ain't got be my girl though
I'll drop you off at Willoughby and Myrtle
Smash with the Virgo
Ain't got to take your shirt off
But see me convince your homegirl though
Now I was so fresh and so fly in diamonds
When I stepped up in the club even my eyes was shining, "bling!"
A little cute thing said, "What's your name?"
I put my necklace in her face and told her "Read the chain"
Ooh, ooh so stuck up
Told me "Shut the fuck up"
Blow! Ludacris is in the hot Luke house
The needle hit the record, they was playing this song
All the ladies hit the floor and it was uh-uh on
Live forever like 'Fame', let the Leroys dance
While I'm laid back chilling in my b-boy stance
Could be a little pop locking if your girl's tops droppin
But watch for cock blockin all my coochie stock options
But later for that ASDAQ throw 'em on the fast track
Make 'em swip-swap Nasty N.A.S pass that
Honey in the black cause I'm feeling her curves
She looked down and what I had is that wa-wa word
Why only serve one when you can serve up two
Then at the bachelor's pad doing what the Virgos do
And these women so shy, but get loud undercover
So we can have sex, but I can't be your lover!
Sing
Baby girl won't you come and hold my hand
Won't you come and just chill with the Virgo
Hey girl, just come and hold my hand
Won't you come and chill out with the Virgo
We sippin' on Merlot
You ain't got be my girl though
I'll drop you off at Peachtree and Merlot
Smash with the Virgo
Ain't got to take your shirt off
But see me convince your homegirl though
__SEPERATE__
Yo, the Lord is my shepard
The sword is my weapon
Reward is a blessin', that comes from the struggle
shoes been scuffled, blood's been shed, another Mother loses a son
'cause where I'm from the young chooses a gun
before they choose an education
but once dead their ain't no awakenin'
so like once said, life aint for fakin
yo, you wit' me when I say duct tape 'em?
fuck waitin'
got the truck outside, Benz jeep for navigation
everything in position, they'd rather be fuckin' wit' Satan
when I aim I aint missin', master of assasination'
I heard he call himself Esco, drive a Lexo
rocks his hat sideways, showin' off his waves with a chipped tooth
is this the truth?
this is what we do, sip a brew
wait around his crib until it turns around two AM
as soon as he walks in the door we slay 'em
you guys got fat while I was away, so start payin'
 Okay, you wanna play rough?! 
  
Okay yo, we could play rough!
Okay now, drive up to my crib, am I high enough?
who these niggas tryin' to hide in their truck
I aint order cable, why in the fuck these niggas
ducked in they seat?  are they lookin' for me?
but I aint do shit, could it be that niggas thought 
I slept like B.I.G. and Pac did
may they rest in peace, but while I'm alive I pop shit
P-11 glock spits 17 shot clips
put these niggas in boxes, where they Moms and Pops is
pull the strap from under the seat
back up in the street
watch these niggas thats tryin' to watch me, I carefully creep
take off my shoes, barefoot nigga poppin' my heat
empty every shell in their direction
its you, I should've guessed it!
same niggas that I was connected wit', I know sent you
now I'm'a take you off here, you dont know what you got into
Walked in his house, smackin' him up, "what you talkin' about?" he said
shut-up nigga! knocked him in his head with chrome
never thought I'd be in his home
with his wife taped up for my niggas to bone
fuckin' with me, you should've known
I'll have 'em write "stupid nigga" on your tombstone
what money can do, get you hit for less than a G
for threatenin' me
I'm'a do it myself, take you to Hell, this ones for free
killin' you niggas with nothin'
left him dead, engine runnin'
you the only I'm makin' sure that gets whats comin'
look at your Woman, anal ripped out, its your fault
they gang banged your bitch out in your face and you saw it
but before I let you have it I'm searchin' your crib
for pictures of relatives, addresses to where they live
shit like that, incase a nigga wanna strike back
I'll be right up in his ass to blow 'em out with the Mac
niggas treat you like Fam, and you on it like that?
now you gotta lay flat, gettin' eatin' by rats
gettin' even's never wrong, its only right to react
eye for an eye, 'cause the sweetest part is payback
somebody kncokin', who dat?
"a cop man", let him in
and give that mothafucka one under the chin
cant believe this nigga down with the Feds!
the copped screamed out your government before he dropped dead
dont explain, I put the pound on his head
blew 'em! before that I cant remember the last time I said......
Okay, so we gonna play rough!
__SEPERATE__
Oh yeah-yeah
Oh-na-na-na, uhm
Concrete bricks, bullet proof vests
I'm proud of these walls that I built to defend
To protect this bold heart
This bold heart
But the way you marched into my home not 
Army with the weapon and your arm not 
Would be cold heart, your cold heart
I'm like Nat, I'm like Nat
I'm a man of God but where is christ at
And even though my name is Nas I am like Nat
Is this me declaring war? White flags
I now know why I was even born
To strike back
A full moon up in the sky, that's a sign that
It's time to get my liberation, the perfect configuration
It's the birth of a nation, men white and black
Mother father, caucasian
My blood Indian, native
So now I'm contemplating being like Nat
Bout to show you what I'm made of
I'm what racists are afraid of
No mule and the 40 acres
And despite that
Watch out for the traitors
When they say make America great again do they mean make us all slaves again?
Don't be sidetracked
Is this you declaring war?
No we will never wave the white flag, the white flag
So you think I'm gonna run now?
No the time has come to fight back, to fight back
This is me declaring war
This is me declaring war, war
This is me declaring war, war
Don't want to be a victim no more
Depicted as a criminal, especially when you're poor
Why doesn't the government order capital punishment
To officers
Who racial profile and put slugs in us
Makes me think they want us extinct
On the brink of insanity
We screaming justice, they sending tanks, the man in me
Demand that we protect the family, anarchy
Ku-Klux-Klan and him demand that he damage me
So my fantasy is every single one of us
Come against the evil divide the people it's common sense
The fury, I hope the whole world hear me
No justice till I became a revolutionary
No matter if you're red, white, black
If you want freedom then we're all like Nat
Is this you declaring war?
No we will never wave the white flag, the white flag
So you think I'm gonna run now?
No the time has come to fight back, to fight back
This is me declaring war
This is me declaring war, war
This is me declaring war, war
Dear America, it's time for a better America
There's a little Nat Turner in every one of us
No matter if you're red, white, black
If you want freedom then we're all like Nat
War, war , war, war
Declare war
It's time
Let the spirit of Nat Turner live forever
__SEPERATE__
There's a war in the streets tonight
And nobody's really feelin' alright
I got a blunt for a chronic, a juice for my tonic
I know now that I'm feelin' right if it goes down
'Cause my third eye sees the lowdown
And I know it's not my time to go now
'Cause God's got my back in this showdown
So I know we'll be alright
Yeah, Brooks Brothers overcoat, know the ropes, smooth is holdin' those
Briefcases, silk ties, slick as them older folks
Silver fo'-fo', got no,
My chauffer driver just left some of my colleagues smokin' that Cali
Caught a glimpse of myself in the Barney's shop window
Kinda' see my father's features creepin' in a little
Got an office on Broadway, business in Jamaica
Tell my daughter try the hardest so the best schools'll  take her
And I'm late to a dite with my wife, I realize
I stopped to shop, had to get her some type surprise
And I'm walkin' through it, chaos is all around me
But God got me, no fear, through the fire pride stop 
There's a war in the streets tonight
And all this drama's got me feelin' uptight
I don't know what I'll do if I don't see my boo
'Cause she's standin' on the corner of Linden Boulevard
Holding our baby in her baby in her arms
So hold on, your daddy's in sight
Yeah, Nine-four, Destiny opens her eyes
For the first time, praise God, baby mom's cryin'
Planned to be a strong black family
But we both were too young, too strung, too much flashin'
New come, I caught verbal assassin runnin' with
Nothin' but the worst type, worst fight
But we brought my baby home the first night
Cursed like sailors, burst out the crib
Ragin' in my new car bought from entertainment
Champaign and gainin' clout fast, whiplash
Did this bitch just pass in the club pugged up, stupid ass
Grabbed her by the pony tail, "never disrespect me"
I'm a street vet, regret the sex, but not Desi
Moved back to your grandma, I'm single, the land's mine
She keeps the Benz, I'm all in the streets again
Squeezin' the pen, released again, chart toppers,
Hard-bottoms blessed the feet, now less baby mom's problems
New woman, she's great, this a different world,
Checkin' out my wife's chemistry with my little girl
It's so amazin' playin', life is so crazy
I've grown up the thankful for lessons God gave me
There's a war in the streets tonight
And nobody's really feelin' alright
I got a blunt for a chronic, a juice for my tonic
I know now that I'm feelin' right if it goes down
'Cause my third eye sees the lowdown
And I know it's not my time to go now
'Cause God's got my back in this showdown
So I know we'll be alright
__SEPERATE__
War is necessary
War brings pain
But war is necessary
War brings peace
Cause war is necessary
Getcha warriors up
Cause my niggas are war ready
War brings hate
War is necessary
War brings pain
Getcha warriors up
Cause my niggas are war ready
My niggas war ready
Staring at the face of my watch, its like a crystal ball
With the ability to make the issue stall
I told my man duck, cause I know where the missile fall
Cause the ice is a fortune teller for the rich or small
Went to my man’s crib who dead and saw his picture fall
I picked it up, his voice whispered nigga ball
So I smoke the finest, 
I do it for the have-nots I'm at spots
That resembles screen savers on ya lap tops
And they cant believe it like seeing that nigga Zab drop
I be in Cameroon bandanas on silk Dior
Sip cream liqueur, green and blue FLIA velour's suits
Boss smooth, the only thing I endorse duke
Stash houses, gamble, I don’t sweat a lawsuit
All true in living god we was here first
Parisian linen garb and cashmere shirts
Who’s crew was realist? Shot up the movie theaters
Time square, 88 who’s crew was in it
 sittin on wood wicker chairs
40oz in the lap, givin off wicked stares
Punch out kings, bustin pistols in the air
Hangin out a Cutlass Supreme window like "bitch come here"
Girls cussin back at us with the fattest asses
Like "who you callin bitch little black bastards"
We had to wave the flag, here come they baby dad
Drug dealers in the crazy jag looking crazy mad
They all thought they was sparkle, fucking killer men
But we was all black seeds as Fred Williamson
It was so simple.
Now I’m refelctin in this gold Enzo
Face it, my favorite trinket was that Teddy riley guy bracelet
So now its fly shit I’m draped in. Customized shit I’m makin
__SEPERATE__
Uh, If I can teach somethin' so dear
And hope somebody learn somethin' from it
And give it back
They can't break me or shake me
They too fake to come kill me
Think they faith this was satan
They mistake me I'm filthy
Rich off the ghetto madness, so now they wanna dare me
It's gonna be a murder confront me, the burners are empty
Middle Passage I made it I'm from the land of David
The Nazarene of Bethlehem they had me wrapped in blankets
That bunch of backward gangsters
That sign of Alpha Davis
Snitches with smile-like faces got you blowin' trial I hear this
Hopin' my child can see through this tryna be a good daddy
I was there when she was born and she'll be there when I'm buried
Kind o' waitin' is scary
All my years have prepared me
What I fear is my temper, I subject to the center
Right through a man's soul
Straight through his eyes, straight through his heart I'm still alive how did I make it this far
'Cause I been high I been low, searchin' for a way to go
Every single night I pray
And Lord I'm on this battleground, lost just waitin' to be found
I guess it's just a warrior's way 
: Alicia Keys]
This is the song, for my warriors
A warrior song Bravehearted and strong, definition of a warrior
Definition of a warrior
Gonna keep marchin' on, to the sound of her own beatin' drum 
Like King Nasir fightin' the
British regime I can't cope my existence is hope for younger teens who lost in their world
Earlier this year I buried my queen in a gold casket
Your mother's the closest thing to
God that you ever have kid I'm askin, what would you do at your own mom's funeral
Wanna pick her up out of it, this can't be real
Tellin' my daughter grandma's gone, but
I can't keep still I can't go on, responsible for so many
Her last days at the hospital
Visits from family I'm tryin' not to bust shots at niggas
Wishin' death on other nigga's mothers ain't right but why mommy
She raised me in the projects alone
Her untimely exit from her, heavenly body
Got me ready to embody somethin' quickly
Can't be happy, fuck a party she can't party with me
So your apologies are burnin' ya own souls
To the kids with no parents at home, grab a whole 
: Alicia Keys]
This is the song, for my warriors
A warrior song
Bravehearted and strong, definition of a warrior
Gonna keep marchin' on, to the sound of her own beatin' drum 
Fight 'til the fight is over, for my peoples I die see
When you thought they were soldiers they turned out to be nobodies
I think they out to get me, helpless was livin' sinful If you was me
all this pain I'm feelin would bend and killed you
It only made me stronger
But in my head it gets darker who wishin' evil on ya
Sometimes I wish I was dead
But I took heed to the cause
'Cause I been high I been low, searchin' for a way to go
Every single night I pray
And Lord I'm on this battleground, lost just waitin' to be found I guess it's just a warrior's way 
 Until End: Alicia Keys]
To my warriors
To all these, baby Krucial
Keys! Braveheart y'all
This to all my warriors, who breathe with the heart of a lion
To everybody that lost their mother, their father
Rest in peace moms!
My mother's last words:
Never give up
A true warrior, who raised me in the hood, in a war
Love ya girl, y'kno keep marchin'
Yea yea yea, you never give up
To all my warriors, haha
Braveheart, Braveheart
Definition of a warrior
__SEPERATE__
They never realized, how real Nas, is so decisive
It's just the likeness, of Isrealites mist, that made me write this
A slight twist, of lime rhyme, be chasin down your prime time
Food for thought or rather mind wine
The Don Juan, features the freak shit, my thesis
on how we creep quick, fuckin your wife that ain't so secret
It's mandatory - see that pussy, they hand it to me
I got no game, it's just some bitches understand my story
There ain't no drama that my niggaz never handle for me
My gator brand is Maurry, walkin through rough land before me
where the snakes put a smile on they face, hopin and prayin I'm stuck
Scopin they lay in the cut, weighin my luck
Player haters play this in cell blocks and rock stages
Winkin at some females cops with cocked gauges
Really it's papers I'm addicted to, wasn't for rap then I'll be stickin you
The mag inside the triple goose
Face down on the floors, the routine
Don't want hear nobody blow steam, just cream or it's a smoke screen
Imagine that - that's why I hardly kick the braggin raps
I zone, to each his own and this ghetto inhabitant
]
Watch dem niggas that be close to you
And make sure they do what they supposed to do
Cause you know they be thinkin about smokin you
Never personal, nowadays, it's the ways
Now how can I perfect this 
livin reckless, die for my necklace
Crime infected, drivin a Lexus with a death wish
Jettin, checkin my message on the speaker
Boppin to Mona Lisa brown reefer, ten G's, gun and my Visa
CD crankin, doin ninety on the Franklin-D-Roosevelt
No seat belt, drinkin and thinkin
My man caught a bad one son, niggaz is frightened
Secret indictments, adds on to one seekin enlightment
My Movado says seven, the God hour, that's if you follow
traditions started by the school not far from the Apollo
My "Fuck Tommorrow" motto through the eyes of Pablo
Escobar the desperado - word to Cus D'Amato
Got to watch dem niggas that's close to you
And make sure they do what they supposed to do
Cause you know they be thinkin about smokin you
Never personal, nowadays, it's the ways
Watch dem niggas that's close to you
And make sure they do what they supposed to do
Cause you know they be thinkin about smokin you
Never personal, nowadays, it's the ways
Some niggaz watch you  see you when you think on the low
Ain't hard to spot you, you swore to keep it real after you blow
Three ki's, new V's, went to Anguilla with your hoe
Stayed around the hood, smoothest cat, gettin the dough
Them old timers, advise you to them problems that's ahead
Drama with the Feds, not listenin just bobbin your head
Your Roley shinin, thinkin to yourself nobody's takin mine
At the same time, your hoe is gettin snatched from behind
Put in the van, where's the hundred grand, script in her hand
From all the ice, wouldn't you know -
- you knew these niggaz all your life
What made them mark you victim, you fucked up somehwere down the line
now they had to target your Wisdom
She took em to your place, straight to your safe
You doubted it could happen sick of yappin
Dump in your ride, headed to your side
Puffin ganja get to your crib, can't find her
Just a reminder shit and have your stash house where you crash out
Coulda passed out, your coke was gone, now you assed out
Dead bitches tell no lies, you should use your eyes
Got to watch dem niggas that's close to you 
And make sure they do what they supposed to do 
Cause you know they be thinkin about smokin you 
Never personal, nowadays, it's the ways
Watch dem niggas that's close to you 
And make sure they do what they supposed to do
Cause you know they be thinkin about smokin you 
Never personal, nowadays, it's the ways
__SEPERATE__
Its much more than a March
It will be the beginin of a movement
Millions more movement; let us begin
Tell us what you hear!
Dear people of the globe
I hoped you in good health
By the time my voice hit you
I hope in all wells wit you
My mission is to bail wit you
Touch upon some real issues
Senators, Government Officials
Sit at the conference and listen
Have a Coke and a Mineral water
And say reminisce, George L. Jackson
Malcolm X last win when I'm rappin
Americans, Africans, Asians, Russians, and Arab men
Send your clergymen to journey wit Nas from Queens projects
I promise unforgettable experience
compare me wit, Imhotep get M.O. Dep
History was stolen, get in my zone
what makes the power that beef? less gangsta then Al Campone
Rosetta stone was stolen like Chicago was
Think I'm a thug?, lets talk about some conquerors
Napoleon, Sun Tzu, Genghis Khan
Hitler, Edi Amin, I'm the tale of the hunt
Let's bring back to the cat that invented the gun
From the Indians all the way to the Pentagon
I'm sittin on Capitol Hill
I'm composin this rhyme, guarantee to make all of y'all feel
The beauty that was trapped under siege
Believe in yourself you'll be free, take it from me
We will not surrender or we will not back down
We keep overactin
Throw a fist for black power
Tell us what you hear
Why do we March? to protest Government policy
We March because the time to fight back
We March for education
Throw a fist for black power
Tell us what you hear
Why do we March? We March to save the soul of America
The rejection of what's right could mean you in denial
It either breaks you or makes you becomes hostile
I swallow many lives before tastin the truth
In the beginin there was darkness, beautiful you
How will life be without night?, no tranquility?
No way to get away and rest no stability?
I can't see the sky without the moon and the stars
The sunlight; blockin everythin the King I'm involved
People worship the Madonna in the shrines in Spains
I'm proud to share the same blood type in veins
The holy mother...the loneliest color remains
Can't be tamperin, die loot the chains
They try make you not want it, make you run from it
The wickest men, want the ebony punish
It's so seductive it's sensuous in my clutches
Hot as fire when Moses saw burnin bushes
So abused and misused and mistreated
Makin men wanna get drunk and get weed it
People wild when she comes out pull out and party
Catch her body, fornicate some start beef
Chain reaction cuz it's in the air
The lost tribe scattered everywhere
From the North thru West Hemisphere
Scientist and Archaeologist conceal the obvious
The dead, livin and little children over time of this
Obsession coursin, every essence of magnetism every organism when it come to it
All question 'bout Resurrection and your connection with God
It's answered wit the beast in your heart
We will not surrender or we will not back down
We keep overactin
Throw a fist for black power
Tell us what you hear
Why do we March? to protest Government policy
We March because the time to fight back
We March for education
Throw a fist for black power
Tell us what you hear
Why do we March? We March to save the soul of America
__SEPERATE__
Where there's life there is water
We depend on mama nature
there's a message for tomorrow
Everything connects to you
Some say soon it will be over
you can see it in the weather
out of tune with mama nature
what you do comes back to you
We're not alone 
Confucius, Confucius
Sigmund Freud
And Fard Muhammad
Is it evolution or God?
Searching for the truth is a threat
Seems the closer we get to the truth
State troopers or FEDs come out to silence you
My house in Malibu probably tapped
Because living next door to Demi Moore
Plus, I'm black
Plus, I want vengeance for the poor
Who's attacked daily
Patriot Act never scared me
Jake in the Taurus
Sticky in the jar-s
Niggas I'm with got warrants
America's brown and
Twenty years from now
Every town will be brown and Latin
An African lookin Manhattan
I'ma tell you what I seen with my three eyes
Word to me, not a hoax, back in 9-9
A spacecraft in the skyline
In L.A., in daytime, ask Horse if I'm lying
Every mother, every father
Raise your sons and your daughters
With respect and with honor
From the seed comes a fruit
Its an unbroken circle
All of life is universal
And we're all in the struggle
If i know one thing is true...
We're not alone 
Evidence remains in debate
Documents of our own Air Force base
Additional terrestrial information
Other planets with life population
My observation
Scientists study pictures of a flying disc
Right on earth, anthropologists are finding shit
Visitors, probably live with us
They can mimic us
It's sort of what we seeing in the cinemas
Take a look in the mirror
And see the bigger picture
Its good to be alive
Its good to be alive
Nobody is an island
we are part of an environment
Only way we gone survive
Is if we harmonize
We're not alone 
Reginald Lewis
The black billionaire
Before Oprah or Bob Johnson
How'd he disappear?
Conspiracy theories, UFO's in the air
I've seen it with my own two eyes
And I swear, like Warren Buffet
Real money I'm just trying to touch it
The diamond-encrusted shit, live illustrious
'Cause we was deprived of it, suffered
Now we pop to prove anything's possible
My pimp strut was invented when they whipped us
Now we diddy-bop just to show you that our strength's up
Just when niggas about to see they cut
Global warming about to burn us up
Niggas never really seen paper in this world
American blacks the teenager of this world
Give us twenty more years to grow up
Already geniuses; what I mean is this
I used to worship a certain Queens police murderer
'Til I read the words of Ivan van Sertima
He inserted something in me
That made me feel worthier
Now I spit revolution
I'm his hood interpreter
Take a look in the mirror
And see the bigger picture
Its good to be alive
Its good to be alive
Nobody is an island
we are part of an environment
Only way we gone survive
Is if we harmonize 
We're not alone
__SEPERATE__
Foreign cars
Three for Alize niggaz deceased or behind bars
I rap divine Gods check the prognosis, is it real or showbiz?
My window faces shootouts, drug overdoses
Live amongst no roses, only the drama, for real
A nickel-plate is my fate, my medicine is the ganja
Here's my basis, razor embraces, many faces
Your telephone blowin, black stitches or fat shoelaces
Peoples are petrol, dramatic automatic fo'-fo' I let blow
Back down po-po when I'm vexed so
My pen taps the paper then my brain's blank
I see dark streets, hustlin brothers who keep the same rank
It Goes On to the Break Of Dawn, Listening to Words, Knowledge, Word Is Bond
It Goes On to the Break Of Dawn, Listen to the Words, and the Knowledge
I keep a gem-star razor under my tongue... and near my gums
When I'm not strapped... blow just before you cock your glocc back
Touch your temple, leave you leaking, while I'm speaking
The shit that I be freaking, gives me papers, while I'm sleeping... G
Walk around mega hard, like wateva God...
You could'ntcount how many niggas my bretta scarred
I light the marijuana smoke, and chicks
And posers that I'm smoking with
Could'nttake it, my ganja left emotionless
I leave your brain stuck
Giving hoes a plain fuck
They call me Nasty, but I'm not with the strange stuff
When I'm drunk, I stagger right and lyrics with a dagger
Next stabber catchin reck, badder than a tec would had of...
Lefted struck, now whose next up...
I murder, send me to San Quentin and I'm lynching niggas... Word Up
A sing-sing, fuck is a hang, still is the same thing...
No... matter the cell blockNas will be named King
Slaughter... drinking head rock...
Forget water, peace to my niggas with my shit in ya tape recorder
It Goes On, Word Is Bond... Word Is Bond... Lettin Nas Nas be Born... With Westwood
Yea
Pardon the Curses, but just in the verses, when I...
Was a kid, I used to blow up the churches
But now, I got older, snatching purses
Walking around, I'm a nervous reck
What the heck?
Don't disrespect...
Cause if you do... you might get hit with the tec
Off the top of my head
Yes, I'm a blunthead
The F.I... F.B.I. want me dead
But yea... I might stutter
When I'm still crazy butter
Doing whatever you want
I'm from the gutter...
Queensbridge, where I live... New York City
Where it comes by, and the girls look pretty
Like my man Malakai said...
It goes on, Word Is Bond... till the end, my friend I wanna drive me a Benz...
I swear... and my motherfucking real name is Nasir... Yea
It Goes On, Like Dat, It Don't Stop
I keep it real rocking that New York Hip Hop
Straight outta Queens, by all means
I chill with sess fiends, in Guess Jeans
Yes, Yes, It's On
__SEPERATE__
Still somehow I believe, we always survive.. but why?
To my dogs.. wherever you are
Whattup Big?  You know shit is rough after you slid
You in God's hands now, keep a place for me kid
Ain't nuttin changed -- still _Party and Bullshit_
We used to +Fuck R&B Bitches+ and see who rhyme sickest
For every hit you made, more rappers afraid to come out
_Machine Gun Funk_, from Queens I came through to smoke blunts
You came to my hood, we was broke
I wonder if we stayed that way, would there have been gunsmoke?
Still on the block around fiends numb from coke, I guess so
Cause now with paper, shit is still ghetto
But fuck it black, you livin your life, though your loved ones
Peace to your daughter and your newborn son
It used to be fun, makin records to see your response
But, now competition is none, now that you're gone
And these niggaz is wrong -- usin your name in vain
And they claim to be New York's king?  It ain't about that
It's more serious, I plan to toast it up with you
Joke with you, happy we on top, the most official
Ain't too many real ones out there; I feel some 
but doubt they're, capable, to take it where you took it to
I missed your wake not cause I'm fake
cause I hate to see somebody so great in that way
I woulda stayed so long with so much to say
I had to put it in writin to keep me and Brooklyn from fightin
Tellin me to pay my respects and move to the side
But I probably wouldn't have got off my knees to let people by
You can't kill nothin that's _Ready to Die_
You was like God to us in the form of Allah
Still somehow I believe, we always survive.. but why?
Still, we, will survive
No matter what, my people just stay alive
Still, we, will survive
No matter what, my people just stay alive
Thug Life never die..
Dear 'Pac, every thug sheds a tear drop -- and use teeth 
to bite off beer tops, and _Pour Out a Lil' Liquor_
You was more than just the wildest nigga
+2Pacalypse+, I understand your style nigga
It's goin on the third year, since you've been gone
On the East and West Coast the same shit is goin on
The industry be talkin, offendin me often
They don't believe you dead, wanna see you in your coffin
I can relate, shootouts and court dates
+All Eyez on You+, niggaz in your face invadin your space
You asked if I could trade in your place, how would I hold up?
How long would I ride, before I fold up?
How did you know through your rhymes it was your time to go?
You predicted it in every line, all in your flow
There could _Never Be Peace_ I have to quote
Can't believe I heard my name on "the realest shit you ever wrote"
We had words cause the best supposed to clash at the top
but kept it brotherly, when we seen each other and stopped
in NYC, at MTV, people watched
We was both deep, after you left, I got no sleep
Think about how us real niggaz would be
If we united, a nation of thugs, who could fight it?
You was caught in a wild homicide, or were you crucified
like the son of God, when Lucifer lied
and make the world think, young blacks should be extinct?
But Thug Life'll never die, we stay high and just link
Will there ever be another MC as nice?
Will you return to us like the resurrection of Christ?
Still somehow I believe, we always survive.. but why?
Still, we, will survive
No matter what, my people just stay alive
Still, we, will survive
No matter what, my people just stay alive
I wonder what the Commodores went through on tour?
Did Smokey Robinson, have to shoot his way out a war?
What has Al Green seen, that made him religious?
Was it the drugs -- put an end to the music business?
If so, should I put out the indo right now and write down
a plan and pursue my dream turn my life around
Cause I'm bound for the movie screen, cuties that scream
I'll need a extra Uzi riding through my own hood in Queens
It be the ones you always knew, that want it on
Tellin everybody it was him, that you fronted on
Thought we walked a million miles it was just twenty
Not used to walkin in the path of legit money
I thought I made it but we only took baby steps
Up the success ladder, where they pay me checks
To my clicks when I got it I said "Baby bless"
That was the 80's, but now look at this crazy mess
We in the 90's, and finally it's lookin good
Hip-hop took it to billions, I knew we would
A lot of ups and downs in the game, could lose or gain
a couple pounds tryin to maintain -- one day you here
the next you not; when you around niggaz, check 'em out
Some is bout it, most individuals plots
and run the spots, some choose to stay to theyselves
While others have no cares and stay in jail
More than fifty percent of us
endin up with holes through the chest
through the head, through the gut it shows
The future for us young shooters and old killers
Who become rich as dope dealers?
Nothing left for us but hoop dreams and hood tournaments
Thug coaches with subs sittin on the bench; either that or rap
We want the fast way outta this trap
Whether it be 9 to 5 or slangin crack
To my deceased Gods wishin I could bring you back
But life is a dream and y'all taught me that
.. always survive.. but why?
Always survive, always
Still, we, will survive
No matter what, my people just stay alive
Still, we, will survive
No matter what, my people just stay alive
Still, we, will survive 
Still, we, will survive 
Still, we, will survive
No matter what, my niggaz just stay alive
__SEPERATE__
Ayo its poison, ecstasy, coke
You say its love, it is poison
Schools where I learned they should be burned, it is poison
Physicians prescripting us medicine which is poison
Doctors injecting our infants with the poison
Religion misoverstood is poison
Niggas up in my hood be getting shot giving poison
In hospitals, shots rittle the block
Little children and elderly women run for their lives
Drizzling rain come out the sky every time somebody dies,
Must be out my fucking mind, what is this, the hundredth time?
Sending flowers to funerals, reading rest in peace
You know the usual, death comes in threes
Life is short is what some nigga said
Not if you measure life by how one lives and what he did
Its funny how these black killer companies is making money off us
Fast food, colas, sodas skull and bone crossers
Sisters up in my hood trying to do good given choices
When pregnant drop out of school or have abortions
Stop working hoping that they find a man that will support them
Up late night on they mothers cordless, thinking a perm or
Bleaching cream will make better when they gorgeous
White girls tanning, lypo suction
Fake titties are implanted, fake lips thats life destruction
Lightskin women, bi-racial hateful toward themselves
Denying even they blood
I don't judge Tiger Woods but I overstand the mental poison
Thats even worser than drugs
Radio and TV poison, white Jesus poison
And any thoughts of taking me down is poison
Who want beef now, my heat shell anoint them, plaow
Never to worry, all the wrong doers got it coming back to em
A thousand times over
Every dog has its day and everything flips around
Even the most greatest nation in the world has it coming back to em
Everyone reaps what they sew that's how it goes
Innocent lives will be taken, it may get worse but we'll get through it
You all be strong
The China-men built the railroad
The Indians saved the Pilgrim
And in return the Pilgrim killed em
They call it it Thanksgiving, I call your holiday hellday
Cause I'm from poverty, neglected by the wealthy
Me and my niggas share gifts every day like Christmas
Slay bitches and party everyday like this is the last
I'm with my heckles connecting and we hitting the lad
This is my level, fuck if it get you mad
It's all poison, all of my words to enemies it is poison
Rappers only talk about ki's, its all poison
How could you call yourself emcees you ain't poison
Think about the kids you mislead with the poison
And any thoughts of taking me down is all poison
Who want beef now, my heat shell anoint them, plaow
What goes around comes around my nigga
And what goes up it must come down my nigga
The soldiers found below the ground my nigga
Just hold it down we older now my nigga
What goes around comes around my nigga
And what goes up it must come down my nigga
The soldiers found below the ground my nigga
Just hold it down we older now my nigga
This nigga Ike with the Iverson jersey
Light skin with herpees
Fuckin' sisters in Harlem, Brooklyn and D.C.
This is the problem cause he never tell em he got it
From letting fags suck him off Rikers Island in nine-three
Drives in Benz, hangs in all the parties
All the concerts, backstage where the stars be
Rocking their shirts in bitches faces like clockwork
Whats your name, where you from, chain blinging
Thinking girls everywheres dumb, taking powder ruining their lives
So they could never have babies, and they could never be wives
He never used a condom, give him head he got ya
Met the wrong bitch and now he dead from the monster AIDs
I contemplate, believing in karma
Those on top could just break and wont be eating tomorrow
I know some bitches who be sleeping on niggas dreams
They leave when they nigga blow she the first bitch on her knees
Knowing dudes thats neglecting their seeds
Instead of taking care of em they spending money on trees
I pray for you deadbeat daddies
Cause when them kids get grown its too late for you
Now you old and you getting shitted on
Its all scientific, mystic, you know the Earth and the stars
Don't hesitate to say you heard it from Nas
What is destined shall be
George Bush killer till George Bush kills me
Much blessings be healthy, remember
__SEPERATE__
Straight out of QB niggas
This is nas, lo
With my braveheart niggas
Jungle, wiz and horse
fuckin with these cash money millionaires
so what yall gonna do about that
niggas
We on your block
We got rocks
You got robbed
The man got shot
That nigga's dead
Come get revenge
We getting money
We in the benz
We drive cars
We fuck your hoes
We taking charge
We gettin dough
Yall niggas pussy
I cut your face
I'm in your hood
Every fucking day
Yeah What up nigga im back
Fuck you got the mac
Touch you and them niggas you with
The bigger your clique the bigger my clip
The bigger my gun them niggas im with is horse and jung
And of course youll become a corpse if you fucking with me
The 44 caliber killer don't tussle with me
I been to war couple of times slept in the cold
Shed tears seen it all been outside for years
What this life mean to yall?
Money ice and cars Bustin nuts in broads
Never trusting god
You better trust him had with you when you hustlin
It was him that kept me alive when niggas was bustin
He aint gonna save you so when I AK you and spray you
I run in your spot and take all whats yours
So you lay on the floor we expanding
What you gonna to do about it nigga?
Not a damn thing
We on your block
We got rocks
You got robbed
The man got shot
That nigga's dead
Come get revenge
We getting money
We ridin in the benz
We drive cars
We fuck your hoes
We taking charge
We get the dough
Yall niggas pussy
We cut your face
We in your hood
Every fucking day
What the fuck yall was born brave?
I put a slug through your cornbraids
Summertime broad day
You get your face blown right at the pay phone
I got big guns that break bones
Beef with me you take home to your family
Bullets fly randomly
Wet you like hard rain
Bravehearts gangbang
Yo last night it was on Niggas came pistols drawn
Poppin off I had to run they shot one the kid is gone
niggas quick to get it on know the block im living on
queens bridge murders kings live merciless
heartless crazy mercedes the projects young killas OG's enemies targets
blow weed henessee more beef let it be
no chance of wetting me I hold heat in the streets
rolls royce drop top crusing where the women be
last nigga fucked around hes a hood memory
fresh nikes wife beater knicks jersey white sneakers
heavy like an ice freezer deadly not nice either
ill fuck the hoe with pussy that's mind blowing
do my thug dance in clubs with my nine showing
niggas tell they hoes, "why you fucking with nas?
He just gonna nut on your eyes
have you suck all his guys
and also he say when you done cussin his by"
you aint thuggin you lie bitch
brave till we die bitch
?? a nigga that would kill something over something small
the one you cant ??? with unless you paid in full
the one that hold grudges cause gun games for free
the only thing you wetting and splittin is ??
im the one that lift the skirts up on fake ass rappers
that be killin for a long time but now it don't happen
all them tough guys is wanksters they ?? me in their songs
im a braveheart till death so I got to die strong
a big man that's troublesome and follow no rules
run through crews after smoking blunts and sippin on brews
disrespecter pistol whippin hustlers for their cheddar
the deebo of the rap game but walk with a beretta
my heart is made of stone my eyes is filled with blood
survivors of the street wars yall niggas know whats up
from the projects to penthouse yall niggas better look out
before these braveheart motherfuckers put they gun in your mouth
We on your blocks
We got glocks
You get robbed
The man get shot
That nigga's dead
Come get revenge
We getting money
We ridin in the benz
We drive cars
We fuck your hoes
We taking charge
We gettin dough
Yall niggas pussy
We cut your face
We in your hood
Every fucking day
We in your hood
Every fucking day niggas
Every day niggas, huh
Look around niggas
We on top
What you gonna do about it nigga?
What you got to say about it nigga?
That's right
That's right
Run all over yall niggas
What yall gonna do about it? Nothin
Bunch of corny ass phony ass niggas
Get brave nigga we brave nigga 
Brave to the death baby
__SEPERATE__
Redhead Kingpin, Tim Dog, have you seen 'em?
Kwame, King Tee or King Sun
Super Lover Cee, Casanova Rud
Antoinette, Rob Base never showin up
You see Black Sheep, Group Home, Busy Bee?
Ask Ill and Al Skratch, 
Leave it to y'all, these niggaz left for dead
Last week my man swore he saw Special Ed
Rap is like a ghost town, real mystic
Like these folks never existed
They the reason that rap became addictive
Play they CD or wax and get lifted
I recommend when your kid turn ten
Let him hear Spice 1, made plenty noise
.. Positive K, Father MC, the Skinny Boys
Where are they now?
Where are they now?
See I remember them forever
The original Spinderella
Lakim Shabazz, 9 MM
Fu-Schnickens, Buckshot, Finesse, and Sequence
..Who was a  Da-ha!
Silk tie and leather was cute
Body and soul was Dee from Pump It Up's group
Oaktown 357, J.J. Fad too
had pop hits and gold ropes
Where my man Young MC and Tone Loc?
Kris Kross, the BO$$, Divine Styler
Def Jef of course let's break it down ta
Mic Geronimo, Pharcyde and Coolio
I heard Craig Mack back in the studio
Have you seen these lost MC's?
Funky Four Plus One, Force M.D.'s
Miss Melody, I hope she packin' a bankroll
As well as educated rap for ice and Kangol
Shante, she from around my way yo
EPMD, K-Solo, where are they now?
Where are they now?
QB...
First off this ain't no diss record
This for some of my homies that were misrepresented...
Legends of the game, y'know?
What up to Moe Dee the legend? Rest in peace Cowboy!
Yeah, all the rappers...male, female, DJ's, e'rybody!
Rest in peace Jam-Master Jay, the whole crew, word up...
Juice Crew All-Stars, MC Shan, Tragedy, Craig G...
Yeah nigga, yeah nigga...
Shan whaddup baby?
Where are they now?
__SEPERATE__
Hold up, hold up, hold up man, this is Nas, hip hop still dead
1980's, I need all my pioneers to set it off on this one right here
I asked where they are, here they are
]
Hip Hop when niggas knew the art of war 
Rough rhymes that's what gave the hard the core
Now it's all good best friends became gladiators
Matter fact you blow more steam than hot gladiators
Some niggas is ghost written but I ain't hatin 
Cause I still spit fire like the Son of Satan
Shan motherfucker and I'm Queensbridge bred
Check Myspace  Forever will they bare my face
]
Who said lightnin can't strike in the same place twice
Trailblaze the game, made for life stayed nice
Yeah you made the Top 50, don't mention my name 
I had you open before crack, cocaine grow-in
Before The Fever, before +Missy's+ first +Misdemeanor+
Before Run's, first pair of Adidas, got heaters
And I pop pop, pop, pop, heaters
Stop dealers, on my block  was the first hot wheeler
]
You never knew  Somethin so butter could come from the gutter
I'm, Doctor Ice the diamond the cutter
Like, Jacob The Jeweler and Rick is The Ruler 
Boogie Down Kris is The Teacher but Doc run the schoolin
Y'all got y'all, sneakers and beepers, your dutches and reefas
We got our, eight tracks and sneakers, our hookers and reefers
My work is, never in vain, born to insert
So even when I'm buried, I'm still the diamond in the dirt, let's work
 {Ladies Screaming Kangol's name}]
{Go Kangol!!} Yeah what's up fam?
My chick for twenty years tried to cut your man
She tried to take the house, the kids, the pots and pans
I'm on to project Plan B, nigga fuck Roxanne!!! 
Tried to take the pot I piss in, now the chick outta my system
The whooped niggas need to listen listen listen listen
Cock aim fire don't you miss 'em miss 'em miss 'em
And every chance you get you diss 'em diss 'em diss 'em diss 'em
HEY!! Where are, where they nooooooow, huuuhhhhhooohhh HEY!)
{Aww man, make me feel like I'm back in the days with my cassette player, tape in the radio y'all!!!}
{Your man Nas, I asked y'all where they at? The pioneers I got love for them man that's why I'm doin this}
{I got love for them man, so here they are two thousand and seven, yeah}
]
Where am I? On high with a pen
Blessed manifest rhyme god transcend 
You call him God's Son, I call him God sent
First the God sent me, then the God Rakim
How can Nas not win when the God sent him
To resurrect true rhyme God kingdom
You should say amen when you see me
When you pray I'm him then you believe me
]
Yeah! Sha ready to rise, ready to blaze somethin
Mother of the mic so I'm here to claim somethin
I got the munchies for the vultures that crushed the culture
Yo Nas brought us back on this track so bring it back 
From dusk to dawn equip the mic on my palm
I bring the love so you can get it on
Got the books on lock, mother of hip hop
For realla, come under from some of you niggas
]
You cats is foul frontin like you hard as a rock
When these brothers were the buildin blocks, that made you turn up the box
Doug E. Fresh and The Get Fresh Crew, To Markie D and Cool Rock 
Rest in peace to the Human Beat Box 
Like when I first heard Jay, Darryl and Joe, saw a UTFO
I knew right then and there I wanna blow
There need to be a museum where everybody could see 'em
Said everybody take some pedium, and get respect
You got another thing comin if you think me and my man ain't sellin
Got more gold than Mr. Drum and we sellin
Through Welcome To The Terrordome, niggas are ever wrong
That's why you get no ends, but just in case
you got a death wish, for flare for the dramatics
There's some static in the attic {?} hid it looking at it
I'm a 'matic, nice to the fifth power son and I'm still at it
I was about to flip power son 'til I saw a vision, Caz!!!
HEY!! Where are, where they nooooooow, huuuhhhhhooohhh HEY!)
{Grandmaster Caz, y'all know what this is do y'all know what this means!!!}
{The fact, that each brother got on this track, the fact, that each sister got on this track}
{To rap, took time out of there schedule, when y'all ain't even got no love}
{But they still givin y'all love, that's hip hop y'all}
{Give it up to the OG's the original gangstas of Rap, yeah}
Nas you had to ask Linque, where you been?
Rippin on the mics with the devilish grin
Sort of like a tack cause I stay under they skin
Cause when I open up my mouth I blow them chicks to the wind
Don't get besides yourself like you Siamese twins  
Still got the pen to make the ?message of sin? 
You bring it back I do it over again 
Exposin those who pretend, stay on my grind 'til the end
]
First there was a tree and a MC grew and became 
Another rapper born in Queens, 9/6 the b-day
Moms moved and born {?}, dad hit the freeway
My young life was screenplay, better yet a cliché 
To rap in the eight-tay, no lenses in the east-say?
They say we were a fad but fad don't add reggae
We played by the D-Day, eveyday, Eve's day
Capital D-A-N-E and hip hop, must be in it
]
C'mon! Well I'm the ?wa-say-why? with the with the same crew
First name Pebblee, last name Poo 
Gina Parks? says a {?} I'm a leader, theiver, greeter
Last mark the game like Run and them Adidas 
I'm a real estate investor but, I still blessed her
Microphone teacher outta Alpha Four ?"Beavers?
Hold on I get deeper, dope b-boy speaker
Practice what I preach-a, DAMN I'm a keepr, huh
]
Just the mic and make 'em stand up 
Lyrics are legendary status so get ya hands up
Clap to the freestyle  dance, but in the meanwhile
Cool calm collected, smooth that's how I get down
Then at the stage, hold 'em up like a twelve gauge
Page after page, all you see is a pure rage!
So pass the gat, grab ?taps? for the beat
Just Ice signing off  Yo I'm out y'all, PEACE!!!!!
Yo that's incredible man play that again!!!
__SEPERATE__
]
Aiyyo check it out y'all this is Nas, y'all know what I do to the business
 I bring back the business 
Awww man y'all ain't ready 
Here they are the remix, let's go
It's Kingpin plus two I'm on the guestlist fam
But if this dude ain't like thirty he don't know who I am
Boo boo my name, monetary gain is better than fame
But let's face it without the spotlight you thinkin Red is Eddie Kane
If I was drugs then I used to be a key
Now I'm a couple ounce, on the come up hustle me
Yeah, and hip hop man ain't no 401K
I got my MPC I'll see you one day
 I'm still here, still flippin flows
Still rippin shows, Rob Base let me get ill yo!
It's the O.G.,  R to the O-B
B to the A-S-E, reppin N.Y.C.
I toured the country, since I dropped my first CD 
"It Takes Two", remember me?
If you don't it's the one that hit you with the WHOO YEAH
Used to make it so hot, you couldn't breathe the air
Ain't but too much for you to sweller
Hard body, fuckin wit a Coke bottle model
Auburn, full back and observe
while I BLAP BLAP to your nerves, uh! 
I'm that Original, S-P twelve hunnid
Anything y'all will do, Spin dunn done it
The baguettes, the Prada stilet's
On the turntables, call me Gillette
Yo! First of all big up to Nas the killer rip spitter
The Q.B. hitter called this Far Rock nigga
Yeah I'm drippin heavy from my head to my feet
From the bars that I spit to my name on her cheeks
Catch me on the mixtape, Bentley with the Queen draped
Pilot on deck G5 when I gotta skate
Let you know when I'm out on the dough that shows I'm sellin them
My LP's drugs nigga be like runnin listen
{Awww man can you believe it it's like a holiday man}
{It's like Nas bringin a rap holiday man, ha ha ha, yeah}
{Here they are , two thousand and seven they right here, yeah, they right here}
One baby drop two to the three
Is she out for the count UK mic deceased?
You never heard again from words not the least
I checked first set net worth mic relief
Remain calm more vowels spit battles
And associate the kid when they hustlin up the cattle
I don't care to give when they ride like a saddle
Hip Hop crowd well in doubt where are you now?
It's the Jungle Brothers  with that fiiiiiive thousand
Blowin up your project housin, Baby Bam Lee just bouncin
Make me wanna crack a 40 ounce and, and straight get LOUD and
Chase her blouse and, turn her out
cause I know we rockin party it's all about
Aiyyo cool calm collected and my name is Mike G.
And I'm reppin for Nas and my crew the J Beez!
Eight bars, ten stars, fuck five mics!
I'm  and the boss, show you what it's like
to play bad mitten at the top of your position
Wit a whole lotta niggas wouldn't play but it's written
I'm the first to murk, chea! Representin Philly boy
the same kid that spit this wrote ?Baby Gram?
Nicholas one son the  livin
True school be like e'ryday thanksgiving
Pos. K! Uh, uh, still spits this summer
Came up like I hit the number, yeah y'all know me!
I'm not a stranger to y'all in the orgies
Squeeze ya dick up in ya in the ear as if ya for me
I'm more "primetime" than Maury
Plus I took ya to the "Bridge" like James Brown and Nas applaud me
My rhymes is suppository, it feels shit
Top {?} watch Nemo then they watch the stories
{Yeah did you hear your favorite yet?}
{I know some of y'all buggin out, did you hear the dudes y'all used to like? the crazyness?}
{The Original Spinderella, all that, awww man, I can't believe it yo, don't go nowhere}
{I got more!!! I got more!!!}
Miggity , "Where Are they Now" Nas remix
Feel how real Hip Hop needs this
Wish B.I.G, Pun, and Pac could see this
Diggity Das-EFX piggity pioneers in this
Made his kids just reminded y'all
Throwback go back to the nineties y'all
Look it up, hook it up, get the catalog
We your favorite rappers, rappers, rappin dog
Yeah I go Nas, Lord Do It All
Me and you got something in common through Marley Marl
Burst in the bricks, talked to buyin ?leather?
Golden aged flows, you sound undiscovered
I do this with a passion, spray-paint tag in
Hip Hop's alive, and I'm the breathing dragon
On the stage whylin, jumpin and laughin
It's Lords of the Underground and that's if you're askin!
Yo! I strip the booth anytime my lips move
And it spews, my screws and they loose, I'm a move and it's proof
Now give me two minutes I'm still wicked and still kickin it
With skills built and hot {?} you can't step in my shoes YO!!
When I'm in the mood, when I'm in the booth and whenever when you
I spit phantom in a boost you better just prepare to make room!
Nas give me eight bars, eight stars Escobar
Yo we rule, and we still ain't got nothin to prove, yo!
For the second I'm wreckin I got you double-checkin
For me to flash your big chain wheeler, shiny weapon, step in and holla
I gotta hit the kids that shit Hip Hop
The wack gets spit lot, the man bullshit stop
Yo they call lot and I accept the invitation
But I not try and snitch upon my ?inclamation?
On the real God, I'm good, a brother been in mediation
and my mind has been kenotic, kill the pres led a netion, Dres
Aiyyo Chi Ali hold ya head up in the peniles
This your man Nas, here they are
Unbelievable, Hip Hop is Dead
Let's see what happens aight!!!
__SEPERATE__
At times I window watch at the Wynn hotel
Lots of thinking happens in life, will I win or fail?
Mind of a shooter, CFO also
Ethiopian food flown in, it's unlawful
Money is attractive, honey dress strapless
Agent Provocateur underwear: she's classic
Stroll up in the party: titanium black car
Romanian ladies like Casablanca, Casbah
'Cept we in the VIP area, that's ours
You know the real rap gods, typical trap star turned rap star
These old heads got stories, the days they was kings
I pray secret indictments don't take away their dreams
You 16, you could do 20, come home young
Catch 20 years when you 40? Holmes, you're done
What have we become? Rap stars from trap stars
Black gods to Ansars to Sunnis back to goonies
A 360 in the streets real grizzly
Shooters is cold, kid, the old shit was learning
Student enrollment to focus, yet hooligans roll with
Toasters to pop your medullas off of your shoulders
This ain't the Truman Show; it's the human show
Ask the F.B.I. agent at his cubicle
Chewing on his pencil eraser with intents to erase you
It's U.S.A. against the gangsta, where's the love?
Love, I'll trade you love
I've traded fire with you long enough
Is that all you brung? It's not love
That's fucked up, but I saved your soul
Roll that up
Sometimes I sit on the bench just to watch the game
Feet on cement, there ain't a mobster living I could name
Who made it out rich, in his absence I do not proclaim
To not have a heart like wild animals not tamed
Maybe just a typical thug nigga was my rank
'Cept I had a vision above niggas, what I think
It's crazy how many brothers come from where I come from
Some made it out big, some dead, some unsung
Shots for soldiers on 23 hours lock-up
Younger generation, they want to mimic and mock us
Laughing, separating themselves like they not us, like
"Cops'll look at you like they look at me? That's preposterous"
Ain't it gangsta how your man made it? I'm humble
One gun, one crazy ass nigga, that's Jungle
Now we having babies, cause growing up it was just us
No uncles or cousins to fight with us, we was fucked up
But still it was beautiful, the love is mutual
Even though me and Jung ain't show up to your funeral
I hold your son hand, tell him he the man, we love you
Your pops was king, you have a whole lot to live up to
The G is in your genes, already you tuck
Inherit your dad's swag, it's George Jefferson's strut
Stay flyest, they gon' want to know what in your diet
Don't be surprised if they want to check your shit and your vomit
Tell them you let it marinate, they swear you made them a promise
No matter what they do, you just stay a man of honor
I'm a street corner nigga, New York Knicks loyalist
Corona sipper, pass it out, might blow it with you
It ain't the Truman show; it's the human show
Ask the F.B.I. agent at his cubicle
Chews on his pencil eraser with intents to erase you
Young brother go and get your paper, I got love
Love, I'll trade you love
I've traded fire with you long enough
Is that all you brung? It's not love
That's fucked up, but I saved your soul
Roll that up
Roll that up
__SEPERATE__
Where them gangsters at?
Where them dumbs at?
Where where them gangsters at?
Where them dumbs at?
Where them gangsters at?
Where them dumbs at?
Where where them gangsters at?
Where them dumbs at?
Where them gangsters at?
Where them dumbs at?
Where where them gangsters at?
Where them dumbs at?
Where them dumbs at?
Where them dumbs at?
Where where them dumbs at?
Where where them dumbs at?
I slow dance with the Devil
Snow setting in the bezzle
Mo' sipping, phantom bumping Aaron Neville
Polo black scented, eyes squinted
Air Force One's, with my own patent in it
Fresher than a star, glowing up in the galaxy
Pagan holidays, are way far from my reality
Far through Evisu jeans, lethal green
Oliver peoples shades when I creep through Queens
With no AKs, I'm the ambassador
Robin Hood in the Aston Mart.
Lotta blood gonna splash in war
Task force homicide, federalies gonna arrest
But y'all ain't never seen nothing
Not a word not a hint, on the kid from the Project Bench
That went Sony-BMG, to that new conglomerate
Island Def Jam, guess how many dollars was spent
To get the best man, yall niggaz ain't silencing shit
Ya bench been wanna police the dick
The big Benz, Imma model ya chick
Was that posing, cash froze her
Cats stroke her, once I smash it's over
Cold like ice, more chains than slaves
Dangerous ways, Poltergeist change the channel
Roll the dice, I bring change when I gamble
I could sell sand to a Arab, hot and my gun handle
The ill whip pusher, my spit wet ya
If you stand close to the woofer
Betcha get sprayed by my lecture
Any club with ladies or dimes, I'm a regular
Give it up smooth, I ain't beggin ya
Intelligent brainiac, brains maniac
Back of the Maybach, taste that, don't waste that
Eat with my elbows top of the table
Street etiquette with speech impediments
And s'til see presidents, no matter who paid
Cause you ain't take the last dollar made
Long as they keep printing it, there's chances of getting it
Money's my bitch, and we stay intimate
Ask about Nashwan, could ask about Jung
Ask about Bravehearts, and ask where I'm from
Q Boro, specifically The Bridge
Don't ask no more question, ya know what it is
Whether chrome sparking or loan sharking
Busting rachets or numbers rackets or drug traffic
My funds are wrapped up, no concerns who has what
Financer, skull doo wrapped up
Mob life, prizefights, plasma tvs or first floor
Diversified all my circle
Amid the most sickest groom the proof swiftness
Numero uno, annuit coeptis
That's the language of our Latin ancestors
On the back of a dollar, the plan and the message
In the Rolls Royce like the King of Nigeria
My criteria, smoke cigars
Change rap like Jimi Hendrix changed Rock And Roll
With a broke guitar, diamonds flashing
Almost put a million cash in, in my mommy casket
Seen more green than St. Patrick-trick
__SEPERATE__
Look here see
Pretty Mike shanked Two-Face Al over some gal
Found the body dead in the isles
Death by strangulation
Microphone cord, a dirty broad
Guess they'll never play it again Sam
Damn that was my jam
Now she's on the lamb
She made it out with 200 grand
What a scam
While these two compete on who's the star of the show
Golden legs there makes off with the dough
I read the paper there with Joe the Butcher
He said one glance is all it took ya
She's a real looker
They say her old mans a bootlegger
Transporting in any weather
And at this rate we'll never get her
Fellas, think it's time to call it a night
All this talk of this mystery dame's gettin' me tight
Thought I saw her in my eyesight, right
Hate to spoil the party
What are you guys havin', the same?
Waiter another round for the gang
It's strange how I always felt outta place
Joe The Butcher's my ace, but in comes Freckle Face
So I said see you later
'Fore I hurt him and his two ugly thumb breakers
He met them in Louisiana wrestling gators
An idiot can tell they're involved with the caper
So I pulled the revolver on my waist up
Between the patrol car and the gray truck
Behind the street lamp was a silouhette
White gloves and a real long cigarette
What do ya know all this time she's got me in her scope
She spoke says the devil got you guys by the throat
Your conspiracy theories won't work without evidence
That's the reason why Eric B is not president
Well what do ya say
Ya see? 
Look here see
I know you got soul your trying to hide it
How did you kill a man out in cypress
One Eyed Charlie
He only hangs with the criminal minded
Says you guys did it doggy style is he lyin'
She says,  I'll tell you a 
We hit the bodega got her a few 40's
We jumped in my ride we drove and she cried
Twisted off the cap there and opened her mouth wide
Swallowed it, whole bottle's half empty
Drinks like a fish now she's past tipsy
The truth came out as we got to her suave house
 her mouth and sat me on the couch
I said it's gettin late c'mon give it to me straight
Who's ya sponsor lady? She says Bill Gates
What are ya born 77 or 78?
She says, Nah it goes way to an earlier date
Slave times, claims the slaves said rhymes
But she fell in love with some fella named Clive
Who? Clive Campbell from Sedgwick Ave, the Bronx
Now she shows me the cash
I said who's Clive, don't play with me skirt
She said Clive Campbell
He's Kool Herc
Ah ha! Ah ha!
Listen up sweetheart
Now we gettin somewhere
As she's talkin, she starts vanishing in thin air
But before she drops the money bag on the floor and died
She said if you really love me I'll come back alive
__SEPERATE__
Lies and the pain
Betrayal, life
In danger's face
Look what you're facing, gave your heart away
And all the remedies couldn't ease the pain
All the hurt and betrayal; need to get away
In a world so cold
You gain your life just to lose your soul
Never thinking twice 'bout what the future holds
All the lies and the games not worth fighting for
The world is an addiction, serving up a fix
The world is an addiction, way too much for me
Snitches and rapists in the street, crime to the fullest
Asking niggas if they got any extra nine bullets
They deny me that, they know the bullets they loan me
Be the same ones that probably had them lying flat stretched out
Letter T
It's better to dead a beef than let it breathe, then we don't succeed
Cause then you gotta murder dummies
Waste your time, they allergic to money
I'm never squeamish to blood, we can thug, and get out of hand,
What's the options?
Only conclusion is shooting, bullets poppin',
Hoodlums dropping, fear any day that the feds will come knocking
Was young and nervous, asking myself what's my purpose,
In the back of a patty wagon, bracelets, aching me
Pigs ignoring, I'm asking what precinct they taking me
These cops can't relate to me, death to prison, empty vacancy
The world is an addiction, serving up a fix
The world is an addiction, way too much for me
Thou shall not be selfish, real nigga commandments,
Know a billionaire he has everything but a fam,
Guess how angry this man gets, had so many bad chicks in his bed,
Strange sex, same sex, has addictions that are sadistic
Chain of events, habits, he puts cocaine on his prick and acts sick
Self-esteem needs boosting alcohol consumption
Nicotine fusion, some athletes juicing
Pastors quote biblical chapters, Psalms
All along he's into bestiality porn,
And it's wrong, so I keep the Cali weed in the bong
And I'm strong, but the female anatomy got me sprung
And these women need shoes and bags, cars and condos
Fine clothes, and these fiends needs to get high, so they find dough
To mainline dope, and ya'll know
The world is an addiction, serving up a fix
The world is an addiction, way too much for me
So many vices, habits, mine of course, bad chicks
My response to any advice on what is the essentials of life
I'm just rebellious, not selfish,
Guess we all share different definitions of what wealth is
I need the best things in life that's women, that's cars
Cigars in Venice, bottle on ice, that's priceless
The other night, just in the emergency room
A patient said she needs to see a doctor soon
Doctor busy operating on a lady who's sedated
He can barely concentrate, cause he's newly separated
His estranged wife likes entertaining her acquaintance
In the house they were married in, mad people waiting
Some young, some old, heads and stomachs aching
Filling out an application, cause they all need medication
But the doctor need love or a quick vacation, calling up his travel agent
Same time, premeditating murdering his ex wife
Life, savage ain't it
Some need Xanax, just to maintain it
We all need faith cause the world keep changing
Let go of the illusion, start some restraining
Just hold on 
Just hold on 
Just hold on 
Just hold on 
Just hold on 
Just hold on 
Just hold on 
Just hold on
__SEPERATE__
I wrote my way out
When the world turned its back on me
I was up against the wall
I had no foundation
No friends and no family to catch my fall
Running on empty, with nothing left in me but doubt
I picked up a pen
And wrote my way out 
I picked up the pen like Hamilton
Street analyst, now I write words that try to channel 'em
No political power, just lyrical power
Sittin' on a crate on a corner, sippin' for hours
Schemin' on a come up, from evening'to sun up
My man awaitin' trial, misdemeanors we younger
Courtroom prejudice, insufficient evidence
Jailhouse lawyers, these images still relevant
Flickerin' lights inside my project hall
Sickenin', the mice crawl all night long
And '87 Reaganism, many pages I've written on
Writin' songs about rights and wrongs and bails bonds
Master bedroom, bigger than the crib that I was raised at
I'm the architect like I wrote the code to Waze app
I'm driven, black Elohim from the streets of Queens
The definition of what It Was Written means
Know what I mean?
I wrote my way out
When the world turned its back on me
I was up against the wall
I had no foundation
No friends and no family to catch my fall
Running on empty, there was nothing left in me but doubt
I picked up a pen
And I wrote my way out 
I really wrote my way up out of 6E
Develop relationships with fiends, I know they miss me
Before the metrocards, it was tokens, I did the ten speed
Never had wrote a rhyme in my life, what was a sixteen?
At sixteen, arrested in housin', trips to the mountains
Came right back, trappin' off couches, watchin' for mouses
Only tools we was posed with, had a spot, smoke lit
The hate is just confusion, pay attention how them jokes switch
Diadora was my favorite, the Mark Buchanans
Mama couldn't afford them, I learned everythin' on the border
That's a big 8, Clicquot parties with private dancers with no mixtape
Bumble Bee Tuna, now we could get steak
I persevered, composition, I kept it close
Competition near, I'm a Spartan without the spear
Three hundred rhymes, it was written before I wrote it
Opportunity knockin', might miss it, that window closin'
This poetry in motion, I'm a poet
I wrote my way out
When the world turned its back on me
I was up against the wall
I had no foundation
No friends and no family to catch my fall
Running on empty, there was nothing left in me but doubt
I picked up a pen
And wrote my way out 
High speed, dubbin' these rhymes in my dual cassette deck
Runnin' out of time like I'm Jonathan Larson's rent check
My mind is where the wild things are, Maurice Sendak
In withdrawal, I want it all, please give me that pen back
Y'all, I caught my first beatin' from the other kids when I was caught readin'
"Oh, you think you smart? Blah! Start bleedin'"
My pops tried in vain to get me to fight back
Sister tapped my brains, said, pssh, you'll get 'em right back
Oversensitive, defenseless, I made sense of it, I pencil in
The lengths to which I'd go to learn my strengths and knock 'em senseless
These sentences are endless, so what if they leave me friendless?
Damn, you got no chill, fuckin' right I'm relentless
I know Abuela's never really gonna win the lottery
So it's up to me to draw blood with this pen, hit an artery
This Puerto Rican's brains are leakin' through the speakers
And if he can be the shinin' beacon this side of the G.W.B and
Shine a light when it's gray out
I wrote my way out
Oh, I was born in the eye of a storm
No lovin' arms to keep me warm
This hurricane in my brain is the burden I bear
I can do without, I'm here 
Cause I wrote my way out
I picked up the pen like Hamilton
I wrote my way out of the projects
Wrote-wrote my way out of the projects
Picked up the pen like Hamilton
I wrote my way out of the
Wrote-wrote my way out of the projects
I wrote my way out
Picked up the pen like Hamilton
I wrote my way out of the
Really, I saw like a hole in the rap game, so if I wanted to put my little two cents in the game, then it would be from a different perspective
I thought that I would represent for my neighborhood and tell their story, be their voice, in a way that nobody has done it
Tell the real story
__SEPERATE__
We use the word everyday
Now we don't know the capacity of this word
Are we headed for conflict or not? 
Because we did not break down the capacity
Of the same what 
Brothers and sisters, this is why we hung up the consciousness
We've been taught wrong
Find a room to lock yourself in and close the door
It's some heavy concepts that we gotta explore
We gotta strip the word down rugged and raw
The rhetoric of Martin King just ain't around no more
Du Bois ain't here, James Baldwin neither, they all were leaders
But they ain't help me get this Porsche two seater
A lawyer left the hood, he never looked back
To be a Forture 500 CEO and took rap
So what if my pants sag with my hat turned back?
The same swag got our merchandise flying off the rack
Marketing companies is hiring blacks
Fresh hip-hop lingo for your campaign ads
Controversy surrounds who could say it and when
Some niggas are full time, some play and pretend
So fuck that, no apologies on the issue
If it offends you it's meant to, it's that simple
Tryin' to erase me from y'all memory
Too late, I'm engraved in history 
Speak my name and breathe life in me
Make sure y'all never forget me 
'Cause y'all use my name so reckless
Whether to be accepted or disrespected 
And I love it, especially when y'all do it in public
And I'm the subject
'Cause y'all my niggas
Yo, I was thinkin' a little bit
What would it take to authenticate my nigganess?
Ball ridiculous?  26 inches when I call up the dealership?
Aww that's some nigga shit
We only out for our own benefit?
We havin' too many kids? We Claudines? Welfare recipients?
The infamous free clinics is the sickest shit
Make me think what the hell they clean they syringes with
Everybody bleeding, the cops are the demons
Courtrooms full of goons, jail buses leanin'
Handcuffs squeezed too tight on youth life
If you fight they just give in, people used to do sit ins
They got Nigeria and Niger, two different countries
Somehow Niger turned to nigger, and shit got ugly
The problem is we started thinking like the colonists
'Til Noble Drew Ali started droppin' that consciousness
My father was not a banker, neither was my neighbor
When it came to gettin' paper who the hell was gonna train us?
Oppresion couldn't escape us through the ages
We changed the basis of derogatory phrases
And I say it's quite amazing
The use of ghetto terms developed out own language
No matter where it came from
It's celebrated, now people are mad if they ain't one
Every word we use, it has a capacity
And if you don't understand the words you're using
And understand the capacity of it
You are using words that is creating a destiny for you
That you don't even know, or even conscious of
__SEPERATE__
Yeah yeah yeah yeah y'all... New York City...
Tryna to see where I'ma go tonight...
The most famous town in the whole fuckin' world...
The other night, nigga was at Lotus...
I hit P and them I was Dom P'ed up in there, you know...
But I found this new spot we went to the other night, yo
Check it out check it out how it went
It was just cool like, smooth night wit' my jewels bright
Goons left goons right, coupe wit' blue lights
Bad girls in black pearls, gave us cat calls
Took 'em back to the crib to break they ass off
In the loft mixin' hash and 'dro
Honey spreaded that asshole like a wide mouth bass
Sippin' wine out the glass, Teddy Pendergrass blast
When the phone ring, the house lights flash
Turned down the sound, let's get down to bidness
Shit about to go down wit' some foul niggaz
What the voice said, "what up pop? Who want it?"
I put the guap up, get the boy popped
He say "son stop, it's dudes you feedin'
Who feedin' other dudes, but they really not eatin'"
Dog, why you callin' me? This our food
You, handle the mouths that it trickles down to
Niggaz want beef, I want some of that cow too
But I'm in my princely robe, simply rich
Don't bother me wit' silly shit, call Rico
He said "it IS Rico, of all people
Gave his moms furs, called up the mayor
To get his crime pardoned, his son's godfather"
Said the nigga shot up my cars
Last night he laid for me to come out my doors?
Niggaz always on that bullshit
To make a nigga wanna open up a full clip
Niggaz always on that bullshit
Now ya funeral, the preacher's at the pulpit
Niggaz always on that bullshit
To make a nigga wanna open up a full clip
Niggaz always on that bullshit
Now ya funeral, the preacher's at the pulpit
You can't kill me
High, fly, send a fella loaf or glass?
Fold up cash, you ain't heard the soldier's half
You speakin' hogwash, silly shit, ??? to dash
I got the live sparked, Phillies lit, smoker's jacket on
The son of a Cap-ricorn, my dad's a don
What you think that he spawned? A slacker? Nah
Packed the nines, yo this nigga's asinine
Smack ya mom, relaxed and calm, then mack ya mom
In a casket, you'll get ya fashion on
You'll be in a suit and tie, you'll die
You'll make maggots turn to flies, fuckin' wit' Nas
Remember anyone can get it at anytime
Lames'll swear by ya name, when they lie
Get hit wit' the lone star, ripped where ya bones are
So tell me how yo' ass gon' run, from a C-Z-P-O-1?
In the midst of real steel movers, you a loser
Merk you wit'cha own shooters
All you want is a name, pissed and insane
My security system, my playspot a fireplace, listen
Then it goin' off, start spittin'
Niggaz try to bring it where I live in
Trustin' you, knew where all of the cribs at
So we waited wit' the cigs blat, blat, blat!
"You can't kill me"
__SEPERATE__
From Willie Lynch to Willie Hutch, right on, we 
Made Gucci the shit - Louie too, suits and ties
Player trophies, pray to Goldie
Picture wax museums full of Black Panth's and triple OGs'
Aunt Jemina hoes, historic horse shit
Girls from long time ago, stagecoach with the horse, kid
Witchdoctors, good ol' pickpockets
Sip Moonshine, so-called coons, shines, and darkies
I love y'all; pyramids to cotton fields
to Wrigley Fields, forgetten men who DID get killed
Crispus Attucks, the first blasted
Peace to the rich lady, purse snatcher shot in the back
I know your hunger kid, I know they hung your dad
Burnt ya mama crib, I know that hurt you bad
Minstrel shows; from gold to shackles and back to gold
We act like we home, matter of fact - we are home
Bad attitudes, octoroon skin tones
Slave food turned to soul food, collards to neck bones
Betsy Ross sewed the first American flag
Bet she had a nigga with her to help her old ass!
As James Baldwin says,"You can only be destroyed
by believing that you really are
what the white world considers - a nigger" 
No matter how, hard you try, you can't stop, us nooooow...
No matter how, hard you try, you can't stop, us nooooow...
Can't be stopped..
Yo, on Dateline, the other night they showed hate crimes
Gave a blood time 'cause he fought with his canine
Bestiality, Humane Society
Go to China, see how they dine, see what they eat
Better yet ask PETA, whoever; which animal makes suede?
If not for suede, would you have survived the Dark Ages?
Cannibal ways of the ancient Caucasians
Stare you like you're steak tartar, pinot noir
David Star on the chain of Sammy Davis
He helped pave the way for Southern Crankers and them Harlem Shakers
Now we gettin our papers, they try to censor the words
and stop our money comin, but you can't escape us - haters
__SEPERATE__
Cup'a Hen', cup'a Goose, cup'a Cris'
White chain, colored watch on the wrist
Switch lanes in monster whips, ambience
Specially dressed, guess who? -- Nas, it's obvious
Step to bars, we just ordered dark liquors
Clear liquors, y'all niggaz are s-e-x
Yes we get respected, eclectic messages
Left our brains, get into a female's estrogen
She feels electric, her breasts she touchin' them
Wet 'tween the legs from this thug seduction
N-a-s, then they ass, over-spank it
Whisperin' she loves intelligent gangstas
Call fatties 'bubbles', call head 'skull'
Before I get either I need some Red Bull
She'll scream as I pushed in her freezing cold pool
When she piss she gon' bleed in the whole stool
That's how much I wanna bang and touch her pretty thing
Won't pluck no chicken wing, don't fuck with just anything
Gotta come up, run up and get touched up
Suicide, that's if you confront us
Don't talk, just hold your breath
Been here a while, s'only one nigga left
And all'a y'all know my style
I spend dough but I still let it pile
Mama shake ya thing
Coochie get wet while the bass beat bang
You put it on and on and on and on
Everybody talkin' 'bout the new Nas song
Uh, from a boy to a king
Love to rock diamonds and fancy rings
I'm a thoroughbred, real heavy mang
I'm fuckin' something tonight that's on everything
Fellas who beat bodies with me
Kidnappers and stick-up kids, they all poli' with me
Pop bottles with me, button-up shirts and throwbacks
Those cats only roll when I'm in the city
And the dance floor is disgustin'
Move your waistline to the basic percussion
I'm that, cool laid-back don who won't say nuttin'
And laugh when a nigga start frontin'
And all'a y'all know my style
I spend dough but I still let it pile
Mama shake ya thing
Coochie get wet while the bass beat bang
You put it on and on and on and on
Everybody talkin' 'bout the new Nas song
Bass beat bang 
Everybody talkin' 'bout the new Nas song
Rock Tims, rock Chucks, rock Bapes
I like eyes, pretty lips, fly face
First you said you would spread for me in an instant
See me with the next chick, now you act different
Power of the stick shift, now I embarrass her
Play your position, you're way outta character
Do the knowledge, graduated hood college with honors
Pay homage to Nas, Dickies and Converse
On her eyes shades in the nighttime regardless
The army's so thick you can't harm us
And all'a y'all know my style
I spend dough but I still let it pile
Mama shake ya thing
Coochie get wet while the bass beat bang
You put it on and on and on and on
Everybody talkin' 'bout the new Nas song
__SEPERATE__
Uh, it's real, it's real, it's real
Uh, uh, owe me back, uh shorty
Shorty, what up, huh?
Come on
Shorty, say what's your price
Just to back it up
You can hold my ice
Now let's say you owe me something
Yeah, owe me back like you owe your tax
Owe me back like forty acres to Blacks
Pay me back when you shake it like that girl
Shorty, say what's your price 
Just to back it up
You can hold my ice
Now let's say you owe, owe, owe
Yeah owe me back like you owe your rent
Owe me back like its money I spent
Pay me back when you shake it again
The don, all the time, with all the shine
You small time, I ball with mine
Links, minks, Bentley, it's all with mine
My jams bump out to the borderline
UK hot with it, blew spots with it
Every continent love when I spit it
Corners to blocks, even the cops feel it
Brothas on lockdown on their cots feel it
It's real in the field the Last Mohican
Who survived in the streets and did something decent
Now I got plans to buy the whole hood
Legit' now, I ain't gotta lie to no judge
I make hits now, money I flip now
Hood fella every honey wanna kiss now
I lit up my neck, pinkie, and wrist now
So girls everywhere, this is how we get down
Shorty, say what's your price 
Just to back it up
You can hold my ice
Now let's say you owe, owe, owe
Yeah owe me back like you owe your rent
Owe me back like its money I lent
Pay me back when you shake it again
Play to win, girls in the club moving
I get 'em real hot, my songs seduce 'em
I flow, I'm so mysterious
Nas, and Nasty's the alias
Everything platinum I glow
Cadillac trucks pulling up to the do'
On top out the car, lounge at the bar
We spent a thou', we wild, look at how rowdy we are
Feel like a million dollars, feel me holler
To the max with the Benz and chrome wheeled Impalas
Thugs and renta's, to the playas and ballers
Sexy mamas, fly ladies lookin' proper
Look good enough to be taken shoppin'
Earrings, bracelets, now you rocking
Your body's so nice that I give you this option
Let you wear my big chain if we get it popping
 
I put the shackles on your feet 
I think you owe me some 
The shackles on your feet 
I think you owe me some 
Lock you down baby, you know what you owe me
Mack like Goldie, it's the same story
Let you hold something, you spending it right
Know where you gon' be by the end of the night
Make it bounce, shake it, move it around
Wiggle it a little bit, throw it to the south
Fantasizing me inside and you riding
Throw it like a stallion, you wearin' my medallion
Shorty, say what's your price
Just to back it up
You can hold my ice
Now let's say you owe me something
I said shorty, say what's your price
Just to back it up
You can hold my ice
Now let's say you owe
You owe us something, baby
Oh, oh, oh
__SEPERATE__
Uh uh, yo
They plan was to knock me out the top of the game
But I overstand they truth is all lame
I hold cannons that shoot balls of flames
Right in they fat mouth then I carve my name
Nas - too real, Nas - true king
It's however you feel, g'head, you swing
Your arms too short to box with god
I don't kill soloists only kill squads
Fame went to they head, so now it's "Fuck Nas"
Yesterday you begged for a deal, today you tough guys
I seen it comin
Soon as I popped my first bottle I spotted my enemies tryna' do what I do
Came in with my style, so I fathered you
I kept changin on the world since "...Barbeque"
Now you wanna hang with niggas I hung with
Fuck bitches I hit, it's funny I once said...
If I, ever make a record
I take a check and put something away for a rainy day to make my exit
But look at me now, ten years deep
Since the project, ??
I never asked to be top of rap's elite
Just a ghetto child tryna' learn the traps of the streets
But look at me now
"You're the man" "You're the man"
"You're the man" "You're the man"
"You're the man" "You're the man"
"You're the man" "You're the man"
"You're the man" "You're the man"
But wait a sec', give me time to explain, women and fast cars
And diamond rings can poison a rap star
It's suicidal, how I smoke in so much la'
I saw a dead bird flyin through a broken sky
Wish I could flap wings and fly away
To where black kings and Ghana stay 
So I could get on my flesh right away
But that'll be the day when it's peace
When my gat don't need to spray
When these streets are safe to play
Sex with death, indulge in these women
Vision my own skeleton swimmin in eternal fire
Broads play with pentagrams in they vagina
Like the Exorcist, then they gave birth to my seeds
I beg for God's help, why they love hurtin me?
I'm your disciple, a thug certainly
I'm the N the A to the S-I-R
If I wasn't I must've been Escobar
Forty-five in my waist, starin at my reflection
In the mirror, sittin still in the chair like my conception
When everything around me got cloudy, the chair became a king's throne
My destiny found me
It was clear why the struggle was so painful
Metamorphosis, this is what I changed to
And God, I'm so thankful
__SEPERATE__
]
  Ever been in love?  
Yeah.. are you ready?  For somethin real?
  Cause it can't be fake
This ain't no game  
You gotta be wit me, for real 
cause it's real out here 
So make up your mind, cause I ain't got no time 
Y'know?  
I'm the most wanted baby fathe, save the drama 
We toast when I wine and dine ya -- all you need is me
I won't stress you but bless you
Mentally and sexual, we both intellectual
Can't forget how I met you;
you thought I was a boxer -- Prince Nasim
but I'm the mobster -- Nas from Queens
And when I gotcha - you ridin with me
You keep askin, "When do you have time for me?"
I'm never free always on the move, bidness oriented
Lifestyle expensive, attract women 
You wanna search my pockets, and act all wild 
Say I hurt your heart - ask how could I smile?
Wanna call back all my numbers - star 6-9 me
Check my car for rubbers, but quit tryin
before you find what you lookin for and get to cryin
You always sayin what you gon' do if you catch me lyin
 + {Nas}]
You won't see me tonight {Yeah right} 
You won't see me tomorrow {uh-huh} 
I'll be gone by daylight {Doubt that} 
And you'll be so full of sorrow {Yeah right}
You'll go tell all your friends {That's right} 
how you called and I follow {They know it}
But you won't see me tonight {You don't believe that}
No you won't see me tomorrow
Caramel kisses of Jezebel's sister 
I feel no guilt when I twist ya 
Turn the other cheek when I see the next freak witcha
You got your name on his lease, copy his key 
That's your lil' spot where you rest your wig peice
Go 'head and live baby, I know you his lady
You page me, when you got the day free
but I be out with my peeps in them system jeeps
You wanna lay up in the sheets of presidential suites
like I'll massage you while you massage me, mami
But can you hang with a young man who's doin his thang?
Speak up, I wanna know if you can keep up
Timberland boots for girls, with the tree stump
Baggy sweatsuits, mystery what's underneath them
They for my eyes only, you call me when you lonely 
but I like to make the baddest girls wait, I got G baby
 Call you on a Monday
 I'll call you back baby  
 Call you on a Tuesday
 My cell is off baby
 Call you on a Wednesday
 I'm out of town baby
 You won't be back til Thursday
 I'll page you back baby
 Call you on a Monday
  I'll call you back baby  
 Call you on a Tuesday
 I'm out of town baby
 Call you on a Wednesday
 My cell is off baby
 You won't be back til Thursday
 I'll call you back baby
]
You won't see me tonight 
You won't see me tomorrow 
I'll be gone by daylight
And you'll be so full of sorrow
You'll go tell all your friends 
how you called and I follow 
But you won't see me tonight
No you won't see me tomorrow
Thinking of me you gettin the chills
Like a rush through your body when you think how it feels
Give me a call and my voice give you butterflies in your tummy
Tell your friends you in love with Nas not his money
And I'll prove I'm a man of my word - handed you furs
Iceberg - everything on this planet Earth a woman desires
You make a good wife to most men
I know I got you open; but -- you just my close friend
Get it baby?
 + {Nas}]
You won't see me tonight 
You won't see me tomorrow 
I'll be gone by daylight {Dayyyy-light}
And you'll be so full of sorrow {.. Word?}
You'll go tell all your friends {Tell your friends what?} 
how you called and I follow {Uhh, uhh}
But you won't see me tonight {Not tonight baby}
No you won't see me tomorrow
]
The God, The God, The God, Nasir 
The Queen, The Queen, The Queen, Aaliyah 
Nah nah 
Uhh uhh 
Tell your friends 
How you followed me 
Not tonight baby 
C'mon, c'mon c'mon
Tomorrow, what?
Daylight, ghost
]
Say what, say what?  Yo 
You won't see Timbaland tonight baby
Ohhh, or Nas Esco', check it
Let it ride
Let it ride
__SEPERATE__
Yeah, Harlem, Bronx, Brooklyn
Let's make a bet, I know the reason you ain't make it yet
You say you set, but you ain't see the tedious ingredients
That go inside of a rider, you hiding from problems and
You never knew how to make dollars
You couldn't make orders at a drive-through McDonald's
I was fly at the Apollo with black Jason, '89 with a bottle
Niggas jealous of Jason, dark green seven forty, no tint
Rollie on wrist, gleaming he rock the baldy
Used to ride with him to Brooklyn, Lewis, and Halsey
Cop chocolate thai, Vernon style and burn it down
My nigga hype in the federal joint, verdict out
20 years getting money in the dirty south
That's alleged, you see my nigga's a stand up dude
So I'm yelling free my nigga
My nephew godfather Malik, he jammed up too
For what his hands usually call for, but he ain't do it
Who you are ain't in the recipe to what I am
Cause where I'm from, man, what I see
You wouldn't understand where I been and what I do
No matter how you try you never can
Cause where I'm from and what I see
You wouldn't understand where I been, where I been
You ever been on the other end of a robber's revolver?
Not me, call me Lucky Nas Casalana
All been shot in the medulla oblongata and survived
And praised God with a bullet, I never collided
Some did and they lived, I salute the gods
Moet spilling, splash my mistake on my Timb boots for y'all
N.Y. nigga, Adidas, jogging suit
Shelltoes, slim, fly nigga
Hudson River, rent a boat, t-shirt with a dinner coat
A vintage Fila like I'm the ghost of Domencio
On any day getting throwed in a tinted vehicle
Like a old BK gangsta, but I'm the CEO
Of Nasty Nas Enterprise, mastermind, made men
My success symbolizes loyalty, great friends
Dedication, hard work, routine builds character
In a world full of snakes, rats and scavengers
Never make choices out of desperation, I think through it
Break through walls like Pink Floyd
And drink fluids of all kind of alcohol, y'all
Vineyards in France, yachts out in Cannes
Who you are ain't in the recipe to what I am
Cause where I'm from, man, what I see
You wouldn't understand where I been and what I do
No matter how you try you never can
Cause where I'm from and what I see
You wouldn't understand where I been, where I been
Now holla at a millionaire
Rollie, Hublot and Audemar, deciding which one to wear
Who to screw, what to drive, 550 with the cream guts inside
Or the Super Sport Range truck is fly
Diamond ring on my knuckles like fire, bitch
Gat's on us, I don't really trust these guys
Spend a couple bucks a night on bottles on cuties
If she beautiful, the lustful type, I'll hit it and bust inside
Fuck it, I'ma die one day, they gon' probably make that day a holiday
Until then, let's go on a shopping spree
Speaking for my real niggas, only OGs
Certified who kill niggas when put in that seat
But tonight we on chill, nigga, chill mode
Spill more Spades, listen to Jeezy and Hov, some Rozay
It's like we always on the grind with no brakes
So tonight we gon' act like we on vacation with this on rotation
]
Who you are ain't in the recipe to what I am 
Cause where I'm from, man, what I see
You wouldn't understand where I been and what I do
No matter how you try you never can
Cause where I'm from and what I see 
You wouldn't understand where I been, where I been
True B nigga, yeah
For my hood niggas, yeah, yeah
To my man Eric B., what up, yeah
The whole city, I see you
To my man Big Slate in the fed joint
My man Spunk, free my niggas
All my niggas, yeah
Club Vernon, I see you
I see you, yeah
And Baltum, I see you
__SEPERATE__
Braveheart for life
So y'all wit me? Yea, What, Yea
Why don't y'all blast on these niggas, man
Tuck in your chain put your watch in your pocket
Here come the Braveheart straight out the projects
We live the life where the blood spills
Same thing that get you cash nigga, get you killed
Warnin', Jungle always keep a gun on him
Pull out, {*shooting sound*}, four head gone 'n
Sloppy, droppin' you birds
Close range so my bullets don't swerve, curve
No bullshit
Back in ya hand, find me
Call Earl, death is the ways of the world
Y'all made criminals
Tryin' to wild out there so crack, bust guns at Bow Wow's age
Fightin' in jail, lookin' for heaven, livin' in hell
Fuckin 'em hos, born to cope since I was 12
Way too foul walk around all the time
With a gray Mack 10 and a pocket full o' dimes
Braveheart to the graveyard, let's go niggas
Scared straight, but FUCK them hos
Keep it, dead serious
Believe it don't believe us, until you see me creepin',
Now you sleep with them fishes
G-W-I-Z, so delicious
To all them ghetto and solo bitches in 'burban districts
I'm movin on passin' chumps, and very thoroughly promoted by God's Son
And this is the military turn it up
My uzi weighs a ton, your son less thump nah
Heat talk feet walk you run uh
Rat ta-tat, Hear them shots come
Drop son, pull out
You better send 'em back son, or feel that casket
The peeps be like one 
I'm movin on passin' chumps, and very thoroughly promoted by God's Son
G-O-D S-O-N I S-O-O-T-H-E a female's estrogen
With my testosterone, male hormone
Enough for a giant's body, science S-C-I-E-N-C-E
Don't tempt me, EMS against you, me I'm just, invincible
Like Mike Jack said, for me and Al Sharpton won't be Broke in Harlem
That's that, who made this style, solo or X
Are you TFO's doctor or Mobb Deep
Whoever, I freaked it yes, so meet ya death
I never wear Esco, I got a New Line comin' like cinemas
Remember the, original, y'all still tryina show niggas are rich
Town house niggas
I'm six cribs deep, six bank accounts in six countries
Na I'm lyin', who gives a fuck that's so tired
While pictures of Bravehearts just livin' it up
A million of us, each nigga inchin' a bus
You got a house in Virginia
The only way you sicker than us
Gettin' bagged with .22's now you's a ridiculous fuck
No need for the gun play, it's ok, 'cause you dyin' anyway
Yo, this is for them High school drop outs
Niggas who copped out
If you prefer shots over knockouts
Sniffin' coke, smokin' weed
Sellin' crack, sellin' smack
You thuggin' it, you ain't turn it back
Braveheart's gettin' money ruthless 'till the world end
Gettin' high with my enemy's girlfriend
I used to have a bike on a bench
Now I got a jeep on this trip
Coke in the pot, heat on my head
Nigga dont stop blazin' cuz ya target's movin'
Shoot 'till the gun's empty stupid, Queens
Niggas so ruthless, really excuses is
Useless to these swift executioners
And thats Queensbridge nigga, all day
Pump packs o' crack, smoke purple haze
Runnin from D's quickly knockout rookies
G Wiz you know what I'm all about
To all my real niggas