Philosophic
in its complex , ovoid emptiness , 
a skillful pundit coined it as a sort
of stopgap doorstop for those
quaint equations
Romans never
dreamt of . In form completely clever
and discrete - a mirror come unsilvered , 
loose watch face without the works , 
a hollowed globe
from tip to toe
unbroken , it evades the grappling
hooks of mass , tilts the thin rim of no thing , 
remains embryonic sum , 
non - cogito .

You wouldn't have believed it , how
the man , a little touched perhaps , 
set his hands together and prayed
for happiness , yet not his own ; 
he meant his people , by which he meant
not people really , but trees and cows , 
the dirty horses , dogs , the fox
who lived at the back of his place with her kits , 
and the very night who settled down
to rock his place to sleep , the place
he tried so hard to tend he found
he mended fences in his sleep . 
He said to the you above , who , let's
be honest , doesn't say too much , 
I need you now up there to give
my people happiness , you let
them smile and know the reason ; hear
my prayer , Old Yam . The you who's you
might laugh at that , and I agree , 
it's funny to make a prayer like that , 
the down - home words and yonder reach
of what he said ; and calling God
the Elder Sweet Potato , shucks , 
that's pretty funny , and kind of sad .

I wanted to be seen . But who would see me ? I couldn't
think of the name for anything but a flower . The government
makes coins that size and shape so your hand can feel
safe holding them . The pictures stamped remind
us where we are , or how the landscape
we live in connects itself , through common value , 
to a different place . On this one , a spinnaker
sails past a bridge . On that , a diamond shines like a child's
stilled top over a bird , as if the diamond made the natural
world - bird , forest , state flower , sheaf of healthy corn , shining
water - out of proportion in relation to itself . I love this . My own state
has a bear , so small and out of proportion to me that my life - 
line can cross behind it . At last I do not fear
that but feel proud the animal can sit in my palm so silently
until I spend it . And if I lose it , then it becomes
even more quiet . Most still just have an eagle , 
so it is as if 30 eagles were passed over
from one hand to another when the one
charged with arranging things for his Savior's dinner
arranged his Savior's death . Heavier the yoke
of heat in solitude . A walk uphill does not
feel manageable . Who will see me ?

I had heard the story before
about the two prisoners , alone
in the same cell , and one
gives the other lessons in a language . 
Day after day , the pupil studies hard - 
what else does he have to do ? - and year
after year they practice , 
waiting for the hour of release . 
They tackle the nouns , the cases , and genders , 
the rules for imperatives and conjugations , 
but near the end of his sentence , the teacher
suddenly dies and only the pupil
goes back through the gate and into the open
world . He travels to the country of his new
language , fluent , and full of hope . 
Yet when he arrives he finds
that the language he speaks is not
the language that is spoken . He has learned
a language one other person knew - its inventor , 
his cell - mate and teacher . 
And then the other
evening , I heard the story again . 
This time the teacher was Gombrowicz , the pupil
was his wife . She had dreamed of learning
Polish and , hour after hour , for years
on end , Gombrowicz had been willing to teach
her a Polish that does not and never
did exist . The man who told
the story would like to marry his girlfriend . 
They love to read in bed and between
them speak three languages . 
They laughed - at the wife , at Gombrowicz , it wasn't
clear , and I wasn't sure that they
themselves knew what was funny . 
I wondered why the man had told
the story , and thought of the tricks
enclosure can play . A nod , or silence , 
another nod , consent - or not , as a cloud
drifts beyond the scene and the two
stand pointing in different directions
at the very same empty sky . 
Even so , there was something
else about the story , like teaching
a stunt to an animal - a four - legged
creature might prance on two legs
or a two - legged creature might
fall onto four . 
I remembered , 
then , the miscarriage , and before that
the months of waiting : like baskets filled
with bright shapes , the imagination
run wild . And then what arrived : 
the event that was nothing , a mistaken idea , 
a scrap of charred cloth , the enormous
present folding over the future , 
like a wave overtaking
a grain of sand . 
There was a myth
I once knew about twins who spoke
a private language , though one
spoke only the truth and the other
only lies . The savior gets mixed
up with the traitor , but the traitor
stays as true to himself as a god . 
All night the rain falls here , falls there , 
and the creatures dream , or drown , in the lair .

There was a vase
that held the world's riches , but it wasn't cheap . 
It cost a dime - and this in a time and place
when dimes were sizable , especially for
a girl of eight whose construction - worker father
was unemployed . The old metaphor
was literal in this case and she
counted her pennies till there were ten - 
then embarked on a mission of great secrecy , 
a purchase whose joys ran so deep , 
seventy years later , as she told the tale again , 
her face flushed . It was a birthday gift for her mother . 
There was a race
of people heretofore glimpsed only on hanging scrolls
in library books . They were on the vase - 
the smallest whole figures imaginable , 
purposeful and industrious
as they fished or planted rice or hiked a hill
whose spiral trail led to a temple perched upon
a crag between cloud and waterfall . 
They were a vision exported from Japan - 
a country far as the moon , and far more beautiful , 
whose artists grasped an eight - year - old girl's soul's
need for the minutely amplitudinous . 
There was a place
 ( Detroit , the thirties ) now slipped from sight , 
though here and there I'll catch some holdover trace - 
maybe the grille on an old apartment door , 
or a slumped block of houses , draped
in torn sheets of rain , apparently posing for
black - and - white photographs . Even the out - 
of - a - job , men like my grandfather , donned hats back then
before leaving the house - to circle endlessly about , 
as if a lost job were a lost coin that might
yet be found on the street where it had been dropped , 
making them whole again . 
There was a face , 
rucked with care , that would dreamily soften
if talk floated off toward some remote someplace
beyond the seas . My grandmother had a yen for the faraway
 ( which she imparted to her daughter ) , 
even as her life was tethered between a gray
icy motionless Midwestern city - 
stalled like a car with a frozen ignition - 
and a Tennessee farm without electricity . 
 ( She did once see Washington - cherry season - and often
spoke of those long pink walkways beside the water
that were Japan's gift to a grateful nation . ) 
There is a vase - 
a piece of gimcrack that somehow
made its way to a crowded curio case
in a small souvenir shop
in Detroit , seventy - plus years ago - 
which today stands atop
the mantel in the apartment in DC
where my fading mother is now living . 
When she was eight , in 1933 , 
she gave it to my grandmother , who
for all her poverty bequeathed her daughter so
rich a bounty , including a taste for giving : 
the gift of grace . 
It seems a little miracle
almost - that it's intact , the little vase , 
conveying what its makers set out to convey : 
an inward island spared by Time , 
by the times . These days , she can scarcely say
who she gave it to , or on what occasion . 
A - birthday ? The pilgrim climbs the winding hill
forever , station by station , 
and " Isn't it beautiful ? " 
she asks . " You bought it for a dime , " 
I tell her . It holds the world's riches still .

intensity and height
I want to write , but only foam comes out , 
I want to say so much but it's all crap - 
there aren't any numbers left that can't be added up , 
nobody writes down pyramids without meaning it . 
I want to write , but I've got a puma's brains ; 
I want to crown myself with laurel , but it stinks of onions . 
There's no word spoken that doesn't dissolve in mist , 
there's no god and no son of god , only progress . 
So come on , to hell with it , let's go eat weeds , 
eat the flesh and fruit of our stupid
tears and moans , of our pickled melancholy souls . 
Come on ! Let's go ! So what if I'm wounded - let's go
drink what's already been drunk , 
let's go , crow , and find another crow to fuck . 
hat , coat , gloves
Right in front of the Comedie - Francaise
is the Regency Cafe ; and right inside it , there's this room , hidden , 
with a table and an easy chair . When I go in , 
house dust , already on its feet , stands motionless . 
Between my lips made of rubber , a cigarette butt
smolders , and in the smoke you can see two intensive
smokes , the cafe's thorax , and in that
thorax an oxide of elemental grief . 
It matters that autumn grafts itself into other autumns , 
it matters that autumn merges into young shoots , 
the cloud into half - years , cheekbones into a wrinkle . 
It's crucial to smell like a madman who spouts
theories about how hot snow is , how fugitive the turtle , 
the " how " how easy , how deadly the " when . " 
best case
Look , at the very best , I'm someone other - 
some guy who walks around marble statues , who enters
his adult clay into indexes of blood , and feels
the rage and fear of the fox chased to its hole - 
and if someone anoints my shoulders
with indigos of mercy , I'll declare
to my absent soul that there's no hellishly
paradisal elsewhere for me to go . 
And if they try to choke me on the sea's wafer , 
telling me it tastes like His flesh , more acid
than sweet , like Kant's notions of truth , I'll cough
it all up : No , never ! I'm other as a germ , a satanic
tubercle , a moral ache in a plesiosaur's molar : 
in my posthumous suspicions , all bets are off ! 
another day of life
I'll die in my apartment on a cold bright day , 
with nobody around , the apartment next door gone
dead still while wind whistles through the balcony , 
though the branches somehow aren't moving , just as the sun
doesn't move , everything's so quiet , so frozen . 
Parked cars , plastic bags bleached in the bare trees , 
a couple of those Mylar balloons tied to a chair on
the balcony next door , celebrating something , maybe ? 
 ... now sagging listless on the floor , 
as if every last molecule had been pierced by a needle - 
Tom Sleigh is dead , he stared up into the air , 
the sky was pale blue as usual and he couldn't feel
the cold coming through the window , and there wasn't
much to say or not say - and nobody , anyway , to say or not say it . 
my jailer won't weep to be my liberator
My cell's four walls , whitening in the sun , 
keep counting one another - but their number
never changes , despite my jailer's
innumerable keys to chains
wrenching the nerves to their extremities . 
The two longer walls hurt me more - who knows why - 
their salt - stained cracks like two mothers who die
after labor , but give birth to twin boys
whose hands they still hold . And here I am , 
all alone , with just my right hand to make do
for both hands , raising it high into
the air to search for the third arm
that between my where and my when
will father this crippled coming - of - age of a man . 
insomnia is the only prayer left
How childish is the spectacle of the stained
glass's holiness : the night doesn't give a shit what
goes on inside human beings , the night
has its own web of dendrites refuting the inane
prayers prayed for the dying , for the confessions
going on between earthworms and earth , between
the way a man argues with his own shoulder bones . 
All the while , barracudas in a coral canyon , 
a sea turtle flying , swim through fathoms
and fathoms of images that keep crashing
on the shore of the eye that never shuts - 
and smarts in its sleeplessness staring
up into the dark shadowed by stingrays , gas stations , 
the slow flapping wing of a lottery ticket .

Though the amaryllis sags and spills
so do those my wishes serve , all along the town . 
And yes , the new moon , kinked there in night's patch , 
tugs me so - but I can't reach to right the slant . 
And though our cat pads past without a tail , some
with slinking tails peer one - eyed at the dawn , some
with eyes are clawless , some with sparking claws
contain no voice with which to sing
of foxes gassing in the lane . 
Round - shouldered pals
parade smart shirts , while my broad back supports
a scrubby jumper , fawn or taupe . 
The balding English
air their stubble while some headless hero sports
a feathered hat . I know a man whose thoroughbred
grazes in his porch for want of livery . 
There are scholars of Kant who can't find Kent
on the map , and men of Kent who cannot
fathom Kant . 
We who would polish off a feast have lain
late in our beds , our bellies groaning , throats on fire . 
We who'd drain a vat of wine have drunk
our own blood for its sting . 
Each of us in tatters flaunts
one treasured garment flapping in the wind .

Don't say Sir Pigeon in his cobalt bonnet . 
Don't find among your notes
jottings on duvets and blizzards and the page
unwalked across black missives of girlhood
must be sent off and do not claim the furnace
of the universe is powered by human screams . 
When the dark turns dark
or when the bullet lifts a scalp , 
it is enough to know the lover feels the slap
that the world can hear the sharp shout
which wakes the cat
her claws one inch from the rabbit's bobbing scut .

On one occasion Yugen of Ise Province was offering to share , for a night or two , the comforts of his home with me when a distant , 
bemused expression came over his face as though at the recollection of a joke told him earlier that day ; then , to a degree I would not have thought possible in one whose normal manner was so formal , that studiedly dour professorial expression gave way for an instant to one that positively beamed , illuminated from within by the sound of a beloved voice . So worn out , not even sure I was on the right road , 
I forgot myself awhile watching in weary amazement as his wife came and went , the two of them giving the impression of having long perfected some grave and complex dance known only to them , one of accord and the affection of two people moving hand - in - hand in the same direction , both possessed by desire while knowing themselves to be the source of that desire . But I am so tired , I heard my own voice say , one of them , that startlingly cruel , intrusive voice I hate , darkening everything , how sick I am of listening to it , and of having to go on ! But after some time had passed once again I forgot all about it as I sat there , the witness of this marvel that brought peace to my heart or , perhaps , a hidden joy of my own , one I had so long considered extinct . When Yugen fell on hard times and was dragged down into the most humiliating poverty , his wife made up her mind one day to have her long beautiful hair cut short so that she could sell it and he could afford to invite all their friends to an evening of laughter and drinking , renga competitions , and the conversation of those who have known one another for a long time , the kind look and humorous word that make it seem possible to live again . I think of her sometimes . 
Moon , come down and
come alone . I have to tell you all
about Akechi's wife . 
 - Basho , translated by Franz Wright

Was it Pascal who said " Almost all our misery has come from not being able to remain alone in our rooms " ? Baudelaire thought it might have been , but was not sure . And let's take a look at that " almost " which I'm very glad is there . I can think of lots of misery that had nothing to do with my not having been alone in my room . When I get a rejection email on a train for a piece of work I had high hopes for is one example . Or to go way back , when I returned home to find my white mouse dead when I was eleven or twelve . Or to take a mundane example , when a plane I'm booked on is twelve hours delayed , while I hang about the airport . 
I have never had a huge problem with solitude , it is true . As a child I read voraciously , and would find some hidden corner to lurk with my book . The game of golf is one where one can enjoy being alone , especially very early on a beautiful morning . The time when I most felt alone was when the missionaries came to my school and we all had to endure a silent retreat for three days . At the end of that time
I felt like one of those astronauts in films who have to stay on the moon for months . 
Baudelaire claimed his friend the Devil loved bleak , solitary places where the spirit of murder and lust was more likely to ignite . He decided that this was not really a danger for most of us , though , only for those idle , fanciful folk prone to enigmas and dreaming . The type of person who should most avoid being alone is a chatterbox or maybe a television pundit . But what's to stop these people being verbose in their own company ? Did Crusoe , for example , stay quiet on his island before Friday came ? According to Elizabeth Bishop in her great poem , " Crusoe in England , " he did not . 
And in order to write that poem , Ms . Bishop needed to be alone . This did not stop her from cooking meals and inviting friends to help her eat the food and drink wine with her . After this , probably the next morning , she went back to the poem and her solitude . 
I feel the French maybe exaggerate the benefits of being alone . That philosopher and writer Jean - Paul Sartre for example , his play Huis - clos with its famous line " L'enfer , c'est les autres . " Yes , we all know how annoying other people often are , and how strong the urge to escape from them can be . But the two characters Vladimir and Estragon in Beckett's Waiting for Godot show that even in an absurdist setting companionship has its importance . It's said Beckett got his inspiration for this play from one or other of two versions of Caspar David Friedrich's painting Two Men Contemplating the Moon which he saw on a trip to Germany in 1936 or '37 . In both versions of the painting one of the men has his hand on the other man's shoulder , a sign of companionship if ever there was one . 
Baudelaire quotes the French philosopher and moralist Jean de la Bruyere ( or Delabruyere , as the man signed himself ) , " What a great misfortune we cannot be alone , " as if to chastise anyone who wants to plunge into a crowd or go into a busy bar . What about the great French word fraternite , the third of the three words that were the rallying cry of the Revolution ? I want to close this by giving another quote from de la Bruyere : " Out of difficulties grow miracles . " I prefer this one . Anyone in an awkward social situation should dwell on that .

when I walk
to the mailbox
holding the letter
that fails to say
how sorry I am
you feel your call
or any words at all
on that day
would have stopped
the great singer
who long ago
decided more
quickly through
to move
I notice probably
because you wrote
that strange
word funeral
the constant black
fabric I think
is taffeta
always draped
over the scaffolds
the figures
scraping paint
are wearing dusty
protective suits
and to each other
saying nothing
I move invisibly
like a breeze
around three men
wearing advanced
practically weightless
jackets impervious
to all possible
weather even
a hurricane
I hear them say
something German
then photograph
the pale blue
turrets that floating
up in fog
seem noble
heads full
of important thoughts
like what revolution
could make us happy
from some window
wandering horns
he was three
when I was born
for a long time
I had no ideas
my father worked
in a private office
full of quiet
people working
I came to visit
it seemed correct
I went to college
studied things
dyed my hair
felt a rage
disguised as love
kept escaping
suffering only
a few broken bones
everything healed
now I live
in California
where in some
red and golden
theater I saw
him howl
such unfathomable
force from only
one lung
it was one
of his last shows
in Athens once
many years
ago we shared
a cigarette
a little smoke
from our faces
I can't remember
so many things
but see him
in his wheelchair
his folded body
it's all gone
but for electrons
I can still push
into my ears
I choose the song
the perfect one
hear his words
and see
the mirror
in the ancient
lighthouse blinking
brave ships
somehow
you crossed
the water carrying
what we need
you can rest
light as nothing
in the harbor
we will take it
and go on

Little soul , 
you have wandered
lost a long time . 
The woods all dark now , 
birded and eyed . 
Then a light , a cabin , a fire , a door standing open . 
The fairy tales warn you : 
Do not go in , 
you who would eat will be eaten . 
You go in . You quicken . 
You want to have feet . 
You want to have eyes . 
You want to have fears .

She said what about San Francisco ? Another
second chance . There would be bridges " shrouded
in fog . " Streets " pregnant and glowing " with traffic . 
Dawn , she didn't know , would maybe " draw near . " 
He said dawn draws near everywhere . She said
a city but a city close to nature . A backyard
scattered with birds he wouldn't be able to identify
and something exotic rotting . Avocadoes . 
They'd play a game on the bridge , she'd lose
control of the car , he'd kick her foot away
and mash the gas pedal to the floor until she
screamed and they'd have a name for the game
and later it would be a story for their kids if
they had any kids later . But no city is close to nature . 
Her body is a white slash beneath the green sheet . 
Or " a sterilized instrument . " Last night's wine dregs
are both " the color of the valley as it ignites " 
and in fact that color . He pulls the sheets from her
again and says he'll cut their coffins from
a wazi'hcaka even if it leaves a gray jay homeless . 
The lumber's astringency . Fuck guacamole . 
Deep in her knots and sap . Faster and faster . Second
nature . And now a different dawn drawing near .

Consider the toucan's festive gold breast . 
Its multicolored pecker , oddly cutesy
 & perhaps , a cartoon - comfort
to the gym - roped Westerners
reclining on a beach in Costa Rica . 
It's the same old song : good - natured
smile , hard work , a hat's off kind
of attitude & before you can say
post - racial , you're a Resort Toucan . 
The benefits are room & board
but the cost is blood . Most times
it's the closest ones - birds
of the same rainforest , same
quadrant , same tree - who give up
your whereabouts to the jaguar . 
Quick as you got the gig , the boss
is tossing you out on your ass
all over some flipped umbrellas
 & a tourist's scarfed thumb . So now
you're roofless , alone , vulnerable
 & the beast is licking his chops
in your mirrored aviators . Stifling
too is the Midwestern Subdivision
in its treatment of the black squirrel . 
Science tells us black squirrels
have driven out native grey squirrels
in numerous areas , but no bullshit
in my development , black squirrels
are relegated to lots with a view
of the highway . Mornings
they work shade for acorns
between homes narrow as Lincoln Logs . 
History tells us black squirrels
can't afford robust landscaping
but will pay their mortgage - 
chair the neighborhood watch
if you like . Slenderizing , their night
of hair . They're sun's prey . 
They avoid overexposure , make tanning
trend . Black squirrels
they fit in , get along . Know no one . 
They see other black squirrels & run .

As the extinguished . 
As creatures , coming out to play
in the twilight of creation
human faces intelligent and suffering , 
turned upward entering the trees . 
The charismatic megafauna : 
polar bears , moose , rippling massive flanks
to shake loose biting flies . 
The fox and the vixen . The leopard
dazzling in his camouflage , breaking
the urgent glass . In the underlayer
of humus and moss and broken clay
the cryptogams , the earthworms turning
between the wizardly fingers
of the forest , managed growth
of the second order , the third , steered
toward what shoal , a history
for the benefit of imaginary extrinsic persons . 
In the branches snowy owls
and ravens , or the rock pigeons we call
pigeons , that can't perch in trees , that swarm cities
like the flying rats they are , hungry , 
iridescent at the neck like the
rats themselves shining like a collar
at the base of a public sculpture
monument to the fundamental flight
through corridors of power , mathematics , 
heat death rippling like an invisible wave
down State Street , paralleling Michigan , 
pushed by the restless concinnations
of the El , cutting longitudes across the lake itself , 
desert of water
meeting the migrations of alien carp and
cosmic rays , diving deep for the wreck
of the Edmund Fitzgerald
or swimming invisible lines , boundaries
policed by radar , from Canada
a mass of air launched by minute variations
in temperature , push and pull over heat
islands , carbon dioxide absorption , 
ozone exhaustion invisible and intervening
like a god : that which manifests
through its action on substance , not itself
substance : weak forces , atmospheres , 
unnamed unmet animal species
gone extinct , whole genuses , phyla , 
unknowable kingdoms and principalities , 
coral reefs burned black like
the crouched and burdened angels , 
muscular sketches of our vacancy
as in an etching by Blake , horizontal , 
the spiritual body
dividing like a hyphen the upper from the lower , 
phatic messenger of betweenness , 
inhuman round eyes fixed on nothing , on suffering , 
folly , sporting events , on Gaza - 
wings outstretched to bandage the eyes of Heaven , 
our eyes
as they would bandage the wound of a headless child
or conceal the strength of a people
from their weakness , the mortals
masquerading as their own fates , individuals
slashed open by solitude , acts of mourning
and revenge , writing themselves
into the text of righteousness . The messengers
reveal nothing , like the animals
marching slowly toward me now , two by two , 
tongues lolling , eyes lit from within hollow and sparkling
as a cave concealed from light for thirty thousand years
but concealed no longer . Grace have I none
but what can be inferred
by arms opening , palms , head tilting back
to catch rain in my jaws : 
what is born , now , what wrests its way
out of the eternal feminine , the body
my only warrant , against monuments my pledge
to the immaculate moment . What is born
is not of me , or the we , or of god , or animals . 
It is a wing . It is bleeding . 
It masks my eyes until the thunder comes
to open the openness over all .

Like fossil shells embedded in a stone , 
you are an absence , rimmed calligraphy , 
a mouthing out of silence , a way to see
beyond the bedroom where you lie alone . 
So why not be the vast , antipodal cloud
you soloed under , riven by cold gales ? 
And why not be the song of diving whales , 
why not the plosive surf below the road ? 
The others are one thing . They know they are . 
One compass needle . They have found their way
and navigate by perfect cynosure . 
Go wreck yourself once more against the day
and wash up like a bottle on the shore , 
lucidity and salt in all you say .

Wisdom is a kindly spirit but does it love me ? And righteousness ? There's nothing in it . 
To poetry I leave my senses , my deregulation , custodial duties , and to be a janitor is a great consolation . 
It gave me my mother back through all her years . 
To love these children , so full of neurons and consciousness . What joy to clean up and put a shine on their mess . 
To my mother I leave my veil , my wing , the window and time . I , artifact . In this age the hand is a voice . 
I leave the voice , the wonder , the mirror , and my lens , bent and beholden to the worm , leaf - work in wrought iron , eerie illuminations and deep - sea vision . 
I've seen the Eurostar , the drunken boat , and Davy Jones' Locker . I've seen Spanish galleons and the H . S . Mauberley covered in brine . 
There is this line from cloud dander to the solo bulb of mourning , a string through common prayer . 
I like it when the gray - green shadows suddenly dayglo over the rushes . The wind in my head . 
To write is an equal and opposite reaction my comrade , communard , my friendo . 
What is it finally thinking what in winter's dusty alcove , the body tocks . The day was cloudy . The light muddy , dreary when they took it down . 
To Times Roman I give my stammer , my sullenness , my new world violence , form and all that , forms , and all that paper , gusts . Little buttress . 
I send love and weapons to everyone possessed with night visions . 
When those green lights flash and blink , is that it ? When the " it " continues strangely for a bit , then falls into a line , is it over ? 
I quantified daily the wonder in the grain . 
I found I was over and singular yet many , the many and the singular , the many and the evolutionary , the many in the grain . Many more . 
Who in hell am I writing for ? 
This vision is silly , teenage , and mine , a spot on the negative , a hole in composition . I quantify , I loaf , I wonder , I find , I rev . 
Here the days' mud , night is a satellite , and anger , my cleft , my birthmark and star . 
Anger might be a better way to say " I love you , " truer than " how are you in space " ? Are you cold , can I get you a blanket ? 
To the polestar I leave my alien regalia , my off - world headdress . I leave acoustic forms in time , blooming , sudsy , inconsolable . 
If you are unsatisfied , then welcome . 
Here there are people working every corner of every inch of grass . The meticulously arranged outside reminds me of ocean and feels old . 
In space the letterforms " I love " oscillate in waves . 
I lose myself in waves speaking the half of me that forgot to say " goodbye " when I meant to say " how come . " 
Memory continues to bloom . More songs about death and dying , songs of inexperience . 
More songs about being and loss , being in loss , more songs about seeing and feeling . 
If you are critical , all the better to see and to miss it , to misunderstand , to fail at empathy and love , to not understand love and to love , to be diseverything and to love , whatever . 
To mercy I leave whatever .

Cleanse me of my iniquity
and wash away my sins . 
Laugh , Lord , at my obliquity . 
In you laughter begins . 
Regard this little steeple . 
You gave to the High Plains
a flock of sheep , the people
who drink deep when it rains . 
I shall number all the stones
Assyria has laid low . 
I shall number all my bones
as David did long ago . 
Oh , what a troubled route man took , 
descending from the trees : 
cave paintings and the printed book
made on his bended knees . 
Lord , the broken spirit , 
the sorrows in my heart
are much , much to inherit
and hard , hard to impart .

Here in the gloaming , 
a wormwood haze - 
the " m " on its head , 
a " w , " amazed
at what the
drink itself does : 
Vermouth , 
god bless you - th . 
What really matters now is begonia , 
he thought , distracted while reading - 
their amber anther and bone - white petals
missing from a jade pot
by the door - not a theory of metaphor . 
In this corner , sweet alyssum . 
And beside it fragrant jessamine . 
Almost rhyming scents in the air - 
a syntax weaving their there , there . 
Erodium holds
an eye in the pink
looping the white of
its tendering cup . 
The blue moon opens all
too quickly and floats
its head - 
y fragrance over
the path
before us : 
And so we slit
its throat , like a florist . 
These hearts - on - strings
of the tenderest green
things that rise
from dirt , 
then fall
toward the floor , 
hang
in
the air
like - 
hearts - 
on - strings of the tenderest
green things - 
they rise from dirt
then fall toward
the floor , 
hanging in
the air like - 
these
hearts - on - strings of the
tenderest green things , 
rising
from dirt then falling
toward the floor , 
hanging
in the air like
Moss - rose , purslane , portulaca
petals feeling
for the sun's
light or is it
only warmth
or both
 ( they need
to open ) 
an amethyst
almost
see - through
shift
Bou - 
gainvillea
lifts the sinking
spirit back
up and nearly
into a buoyancy - 
its papery
pink bracts
proving with
their tease
of a rustle and glow
through the window - 
there is a breeze . 
Epistle - like chicory
blue beyond
the bars of these
beds suspended
in air , 
 ( what doesn't dangle ? ) 
elsewhere , gives
way to plugged in , 
pez - 
purply thyme , 
against a golden
 ( halo's ) thistle . 
10
What's a wandering
Jew to you
two , who often do
wonder about
that moving about ? 
Its purple stalk
torn - off and stuck
elsewhere in
the ground takes root
and soon shoots
forth a bluish
star with powder
on its pistil . 
Such is the power
of that Jew , 
wherever it goes
 ( unlike the rose ) , 
to make itself new .

Think of a sheep
knitting a sweater ; 
think of your life
getting better and better . 
Think of your cat
asleep in a tree ; 
think of that spot
where you once skinned your knee . 
Think of a bird
that stands in your palm . 
Try to remember
the Twenty - first Psalm . 
Think of a big pink horse
galloping south ; 
think of a fly , and
close your mouth . 
If you feel thirsty , then
drink from your cup . 
The birds will keep singing
until they wake up .

In those days I began to see light under every
bushel basket , light nearly splitting
the sides of the bushel basket . Light came
through the rafters of the dairy where the grackles
congregated like well - taxed citizens
untransfigured even by hope . Understand I was the one
underneath the basket . I was certain I had nothing to say . 
When I grew restless in the interior , 
the exterior gave .

It takes a calendar one damp day to declare fall , 
weeks of dying mums to second the motion . 
 * * * 
Gone the homeland , gone the father , nothing left
but invisible north to magnetize your doubts . 
 * * * 
Not eulogies or hearses but the sandwiches after , 
estranged cousins chewing under one umbrella . 
 * * * 
One clock for errands , one for midnight
trysts , though neither will hurry a slow train . 
 * * * 
Prairie is not the floor nor sky the coffered ceiling . 
Even a scarecrow is wise beyond its straw . 
 * * * 
Look down : a river of grass . Look up : a velvet lost
and found . Look inside : no straws to drink that dusk . 
 * * * 
A woman's watch thieved by a jay - ah , to be lifted
like that , to be carried like time across lapping waves .

Midnight's merely blue , 
but me , me , me , I'm
through
and through
sloe , cracked soot - 
on - a - boot , 
nicotine spat , licorice whip . 
You can scratch , scratch , scratch
but I stay underskin true
to ebony , ink , crowberry , pitch ; 
hoist me up by my hooves
and shake till I'm shook , I'm still
chock full of coke , fuliginous
murk . 
O there's swart in my soul , 
coal by the bag , 
cinders and slag , 
scoriac grit , so please
come , comb
through my fleece with hands pallid
as snow and watch
how they grow tarry , raven , 
stygian , ashed - 
or , if you wish , clean me with bleach
I won't
flinch , just char
down to a core of caliginous
marrow , 
pure carbon , atramentous , 
utterly piceous , 
shadowed , and starless , 
each clumpity clump
and eclipse of my heart raptly
re - burnishing
a woolgather dark .

I want you to know
how it felt to hold it , 
deep in the well of my eye . 
You , future person : star of one of my
complicated dooms - 
This one's called Back to the Dark . 
Scene 1 : Death stampedes through the server - cities . 
Somehow we all end up living in caves , foraging in civic ruin . 
Banana Palace - the last
of the last of my kind who can read
breathes it hot
into your doom - rimed ear . 
She's a dowser of spine - broken books and loose paper
the rest of your famishing band thinks mad . 
Mine was the era
of spending your time
in town squares made out of air . 
You invented a face
and moved it around , visited briefly
with other faces . 
Thus we streamed
down lit screens
sharing pictures of animals looking ridiculous - 
trading portals to shoes , love , songs , news , somebody's latest
rabid cause : bosses , gluten , bacon , God - 
Information about information was the pollen we
deposited - 
while in the real fields bees starved . 
Into this noise sailed
Banana Palace . 
It was a mother ship of gold . 
Shining out between happy bday katie ! 
and a photo of someone's broken toe - 
Like luminous pillows cocked on a hinge , 
like a house
with a heavy lid , a round house of platelets and honey - 
It was open , 
like a box that holds a ring . 
And inside , where the ring would be : 
I think about you a lot , future person . 
How you will need
all the books that were ever read
when the screens and wires go dumb . 
Whatever you haven't used
for kindling or bedding . 
Whatever made it through
the fuckcluster of bombs
we launched accidentally , 
at the end of the era of feeling like no one
was doing a thing
about our complicated dooms - 
Helpless and braced we sat in dark spaces
submerged in pools of projected images , 
trying to disappear into light - 
Light ! There was so much light ! 
It was hard to sleep . 
Anyway . 
Banana Palace . 
Even now when I say it , cymbals
shiver out in spheres . It starts to turn its
yellow gears
and opens like a clam . Revealing
a fetal curl on its temple floor , 
bagged and sleeping - 
a white cocoon
under lit strings that stretch
from floor to ceiling - 
a harp made of glass
incubating
a covered
pearl - 
We broke the world
you're living in , 
future person . 
Maybe
that was always our end : 
to break the jungles to get at the sugar , leave behind
a waste of cane - 
There came a time
I couldn't look at trees without
feeling elegiac - as if nature
were already over , 
if you know what I mean . 
It was the most glorious thing I had ever seen . 
Cross - section of a banana under a microscope
the caption read . 
I hunched around my little screen
sharing a fruit no one could eat .

The mouth of the girl who had lain long in the rushes
looked so nibbled . 
When they opened her chest , her esophagus was so holey . 
Finally in a bower under the diaphragm
they found a nest of young rats . 
One little thing lay dead . 
The others were living off kidneys and liver
drinking the cold blood and had
had themselves a beautiful youth . 
And just as beautiful and quick was their death : 
the lot of them were thrown into the water . 
Ah , will you hearken at the little muzzles' oinks !

Staring up into the tank's belly lit
by a bare bulb hanging down off
the exhaust , a mechanic's hands are up
inside the dark metallic innards doing something
that looks personal , private . This tank is nothing
like the ones the Americans deploy . 
Those have uranium piercing shells that could melt
right through this tank's armor and set off
the ammo box : nothing can withstand the American tanks . 
The barrel's called a cannon . The machine guns they call
deterrents . The tank is old , small , about the size
of a horse and cart . The armor plate shines green
under the streetlight . The sprockets , almost rusted out . 
Somebody forgot to grease the nipples . The timing belt is nicked
and worn . The spare parts from France don't fit . This wire
crossed with this wire makes a catastrophic fire . 
Be careful how you route it . . 20 caliber ammo
goes in the hatch behind the armor plate . 
The mechanic on his back in the dirt , 
cursing in Arabic , sounds like he's cursing
in a good - natured way : who was the fucking moron
who did the maintenance on this thing ? 
This tank , this tank , he should push it off
a cliff into the sea so that it could bob for
half an hour before sinking under the Pigeon Rocks
where all the lovers gather in the shadows
near that little bar , lit by a generator , that serves arak
and warm beer to soldiers hanging out on the Corniche : 
mainly conscripts from down south , whose orange groves
rot because nobody can pick the oranges : try to pick
an orange and a cluster bomb lodged in leaves
comes tumbling into your basket . What weight oil
did this cocksucker use , anyway ? And this engine , 
it's gonna blow . Beat up tanks and sandbags , 
that's all this army is , old sparkplugs that get fouled
so that you have to file the gaps over and over . 
He stares up in that live , minute , completely
concentrated way of scrutinizing something
or someone you thought you understood : 
the tank's underbody completely covers his body
so they look like they're embracing when he reaches up
inside it , his needle nose pliers crimping , twisting , 
pulling down hard . There , you see that , it's all corroded . 
The cannon jutting out looks both threatening
and vulnerable as if the tank's firepower
were dependent on that wire . He runs two fingers
up and down it , then feels where rust , 
mixed into an oily paste , shines like bloody flux
that he gently dips his finger in , sniffs and tastes . 
Clanging back his tapping on the armor plate , 
as he listens to her talking on his back in the dirt , screwing in
the spare parts , the tank says what tanks always say , 
Fix me , oil me , grease me , make it fit , 
confirming what he knows about the French .

Who would have imagined that I would have to go
a million miles away from the place where I was born
to find people who would love me ? 
And that I would go that distance and that I would find those people ? 
In the dream JoAnne was showing me how much arm to amputate
if your hand gets trapped in the gears of the machine ; 
if you acted fast , she said , you could save everything above the wrist . 
You want to keep a really sharp blade close by , she said . 
Now I raise that hand to scratch one of those nasty little
scabs on the back of my head , and we sit outside and watch
the sun go down , inflamed as an appendicitis
over western Illinois - which then subsides and cools into a smooth gray sea . 
Who knows , this might be the last good night of summer . 
My broken nose is forming an idea of what's for supper . 
Hard to believe that death is just around the corner . 
What kind of idiot would think he even had a destiny ? 
I was on the road for so long by myself , 
I took to reading motel Bibles just for company . 
Lying on the chintz bedspread before going to sleep , 
still feeling the motion of the car inside my body , 
I thought some wrongness in my self had made me that alone . 
And God said , You are worth more to me
than one hundred sparrows . 
And when I read that , I wept . 
And God said , Whom have I blessed more than I have blessed you ? 
And I looked at the mini bar
and the bad abstract hotel art on the wall
and the dark TV set watching like a deacon . 
And God said , Survive . And carry my perfume among the perishing .

She reads by the light of a guttering candle
and likes the feel of each page's gilt edge
as she lifts it slightly at the corner , readying
herself to turn it . If the wind whips
the sycamore branches outside her window , 
if her nightgowned shoulders shudder once
from a sudden chill , so much the better , 
and the book must tell of children toiling
for bread and pennies in a textile mill , 
or tender brothers doomed to sharpen
their bayonets in opposing armies , 
or a family of refugees , dust
in their mouths , gazing with longing at the far
shore of a river . And I long only
to be the author of that book she reads
whose page glows from the same dim
flame that illuminates her face , 
the author whose thought she contemplates
as she touches a fingertip to a word
to mark her place and turns her head
toward the kettle that has begun to whistle .

The blackbird sings at
the frontier of his music . 
The branch where he sat
marks the brink of doubt , 
is the outpost of his realm , 
edge from which to rout
encroachers with trills
and melismatic runs sur - 
passing earthbound skills . 
It sounds like ardor , 
it sounds like joy . We are glad
here at the border
where he signs the air
with his invisible staves , 
 " Trespassers beware " - 
Song as survival - 
a kind of pure music which
we cannot rival .

This is what happened
the dead were settling in under their mud roof
and something was shuffling overhead
it was a badger treading on the thin partition
bewildered were the dead
going about their days and nights in the dark
putting their feet down carefully and finding themselves floating
but that badger
still with the simple heavy box of his body needing to be lifted
was shuffling away alive
hard at work
with the living shovel of himself
into the lane he dropped
not once looking up
and missed the sight of his own corpse falling like a suitcase towards him
with the grin like an opened zip
 ( as I found it this morning ) 
and went on running with that bindweed will of his
went on running along the hedge and into the earth again
trembling
as if in a broken jug for one backwards moment
water might keep its shape

Why are the woods so alluring ? A forest appears
to a young girl one morning as she combs
the dreams out of her hair . The trees rustle
and whisper , shimmer and hiss . The forest
opens and closes , a door loose on its hinges , 
banging in a strong wind . Everything in the dim
kitchen : the basin , the jug , the skillet , the churn , 
snickers scornfully . In this way a maiden
is driven toward the dangers of a forest , 
but the forest is our subject , not this young girl . 
She's glad to lie down with trees towering all around . 
A certain euphoria sets in . She feels molecular , 
bedeviled , senses someone gently pulling her hair , 
tingles with kisses she won't receive for years . 
Three felled trees , a sort of chorus , narrate
her thoughts , or rather channel theirs through her , 
or rather subject her to their peculiar verbal
restlessness ... our deepening need for non - being intones
the largest and most decayed tree , mid - sentence . 
I'm not one of you squeaks the shattered sapling , 
blackened by lightning . Their words become metallic
spangles shivering the air . Will I forget the way home ? 
the third blurts . Why do I feel like I'm hiding in a giant's nostril ? 
the oldest prone pine wants to know . Are we being freed
from matter ? the sapling asks . Insects are well - intentioned , 
offers the third tree , by way of consolation . Will it grow
impossible to think a thought through to its end ? gasps the sapling , 
adding in a panicky voice , I'm becoming spongy ! The girl
feels her hands attach to some distant body . She rises
to leave , relieved these trees are not talking about her .

Eight - year - old sitting in Bramhall's field , 
shoes scuffed from kicking a stone , 
too young for a key but old enough now
to walk the short mile back from school . 
You've spied your mother down in the village
crossing the street , purse in her fist . 
In her other hand her shopping bag nurses
four ugly potatoes caked in mud , 
a boiling of peas , rags of meat , or a tail of fish
in grease - proof paper , the price totted up
in penciled columns of shillings and pence . 
How warm must she be in that winter coat ? 
On Old Mount Road the nearer she gets
the smaller she shrinks , until you reach out
to carry her home on the flat of your hand
or your fingertip , and she doesn't exist .

A figment , a thumbed
maquette of a cat , some
ditched plaything , something
brought in from outside : 
his white fur stiff and grey , 
coming apart at the seams . 
I study the muzzle
of perished rubber , one ear
eaten away , his sour body
lumped like a bean - bag
leaking thinly
into a grim towel . I sit
and watch the light
degrade in his eyes . 
He tries and fails
to climb to his chair , shirks
in one corner of the kitchen , 
cowed , denatured , ceasing to be
anything like a cat , 
and there's a new look
in those eyes
that refuse to meet mine
and it's the shame of being
found out . Just that . 
And with that
loss of face
his face , I see , 
has turned human .

Say I had no choice , this weightless finger touched my tongue and told me to , it taught me ; when kinder and more subtle methods failed , it put a gun to my head , a zero seared coldly in one temple , electrode glued chill to the other , the sniffer dogs rooting and snuffling in my crotch , the small white doorless room , the laser flashlight in one eye . You can't hear the voice when it utters let there be speech , yet I faithfully spoke what I thought I was supposed to , inspired idiot , or dummy on that lap of language , the words themselves more real than I , words here before we were and when we are not again . So I blurted it out , my initial soliloquies , what I could catch through the static , giving my head a good thump now and then like one of those black - and - white tv sets , and projecting , those were some vast stadiums , the first row of faces as far as near stars if there at all , never having the faintest idea what it meant , the microphone dead , I did my best , tell them . Inch - thick rope for ascot , eyes put out , chained to my oars , all the others long vanished : the first minute of death is so long , like the first minute of consciousness there in the infinite darkness of somebody weeping , you never arrive , never reach shore , never mind with what clarity you seem to hear with your lips distant roar of surf breaking . I pulled too for those who'd come later , I'm guessing , singing in their names as well , sort of lip - synching but singing twice as loud , strapped to the mast , earways cleared , though I heard nothing but nothing , blue . Making up what I couldn't make out , and all that uproarious and pitiless derision I had to raise my voice above , I mere link - out on that unknown ocean beating at my ears , just as at the beginning , the mother's heart booming softly ; from nowhere it came , like me , months before I arrived to take up the sorry job of being me , whatever a month was , whatever I was then , blind little dolphin with a thumb in its mouth , whatever a mouth was ; poor mother mourning her own mother's dying , over the actual ocean she lay , a strong stone's throw from the Ohio or that poisoned ghost of it . Mother of my mother dying away from this world just as I was about to die into it . I see them there , up to their knees , gathered as for a baptism , cross traced in hydrochloric acid on a tiny forehead , right there at the dead water's edge a scythe of moon , a meteor in arc of falling axe of gold for the severing of hairy umbilical rope , hear me out ! I saw they were standing watch over her , and my mother's conspicuous absence , wincing at the constant cough ; and I saw her whom I would never meet , nearing peace in the scarlet Magdalenean cerements , clenching lightly between thumb and skeletal forefinger the scarlet egg , and the wide river's sundering undertow sucking to its breast her shrunken body , fetal in her narrow bed , nothing but a huckleberry craft by now just vanishing around the first bend , more and more lost from sight by my mother , twenty - two , unaided by lunatic male she'd been sentenced to , from Goethe - phase to Trakl - phase . And she breaks down in her hotel room , in bullet - pocked Vienna , helplessly swept down the blind unwept current still flowing , sadness's chemistry , horror's and guilt's , to this day through my veins . Months before we met , I listening to her crying , it went on forever , how not hear it , how not be fed it , in a shoreless darkness of sorrowing I listened , still listen , now watch this and pay close attention : nothing else there , only a listening called me , no name even , till they grave it in stone . Until we finally met , I watched her face rise on the horizon . Then there was some loud mutual screaming in the even more terrible blindness called light . Long before I invented the first word it taught me , it told me the others , so many . So only what was never mine is mine ; and when no one is listening I sing what it means to me , even now , hearing my voice through my own disappearing , farther away every day , my mother's mother's fate and mine now one as I board the ocean liner at three months of age and arrive in New York , filled with space and time .

They're over now forever , the long dances . 
Our woods are quiet . The god is gone tonight . 
Our girls , good girls , have shaken off their trances . 
They're over now forever , the long dances . 
Only the moonlight , sober and real , advances
over our hills to touch my head with white . 
They're over now forever , the long dances . 
Our woods are quiet . The god is gone tonight .

The man in the yellow hard hat , 
the one with the mask
across his nose and mouth , 
pulls the lever that turns
the great arm of the crane up
and over and sideways
toward the earth ; 
then the wrecking ball
dangles crazily , 
so delicately , like a silver fob
loosened from a waistcoat pocket : 
shocking to see
the dust fly up and the timber
sail up , then so slowly
down , how the summer air
bristles with a hundred splinters
and the smallest is a splintered flame , 
for it takes so many lengthening
erratic movements to tear away
what stands between the sidewalk
and the bell tower , 
where the pigeons now rise
in grand indignant waves
at such poor timing , such
a deaf ear toward the music ; 
in this way the silence
between hand and lever is turned
into a ragged and sorely lifted
wing : the wrecking ball lurches
in a narrowing arc until only
the dust resists - the rest
comes down , story by story , 
and is hauled off in flatbed trucks . 
Meanwhile the pedestrians come
and go , now and then glancing
at their accurate watches . 
Gradually , the dust
becomes the rose light
of autumn . 
But one evening a woman
loses her way as she's
swept into a passing wave
of commuters and she
looks up toward the perfectly
empty rectangle
now hanging between
the rutted mud and the sky . 
There along the sides
of the adjacent building , 
like a set for a simple
elementary school play , 
like the gestures of the dead
in her children's faces , 
she sees the flowered paper
of her parents' bedroom , 
the pink stripes leading
up the stairs to the attic , 
and the outline of the claw - 
footed bathtub , font
of the lost cathedral of childhood .

I could pick anything and think of you - 
This lamp , the wind - still rain , the glossy blue
My pen exudes , drying matte , upon the page . 
I could choose any hero , any cause or age
And , sure as shooting arrows to the heart , 
Astride a dappled mare , legs braced as far apart
As standing in silver stirrups will allow - 
There you'll be , with furrowed brow
And chain mail glinting , to set me free : 
One eye smiling , the other firm upon the enemy . 
This post - postmodern age is all business : compact disks
And faxes , a do - it - now - and - take - no - risks
Event . Today a hurricane is nudging up the coast , 
Oddly male : Big Bad Floyd , who brings a host
Of daydreams : awkward reminiscences
Of teenage crushes on worthless boys
Whose only talent was to kiss you senseless . 
They all had sissy names - Marcel , Percy , Dewey ; 
Were thin as licorice and as chewy , 
Sweet with a dark and hollow center . Floyd's
Cussing up a storm . You're bunkered in your
Aerie , I'm perched in mine
 ( Twin desks , computers , hardwood floors ) : 
We're content , but fall short of the Divine . 
Still , it's embarrassing , this happiness - 
Who's satisfied simply with what's good for us , 
When has the ordinary ever been news ? 
And yet , because nothing else will do
To keep me from melancholy ( call it blues ) , 
I fill this stolen time with you .

He drew
these dandelions
during one
of the days
when the only
solace
was derived
from the labor
of getting
the white stems
and blurry seed heads
just right . " Nobody there , " 
the new disease
announced , 
with black - tie gloom , 
 " nobody there , " 
after he'd succumbed . 
Sometimes , 
sleeping soundly
is almost
unbearable . 
Please take
care of me , 
he asked , 
as they put
his crayons
with his wallet
in a box
by the stove . 
In the distance , 
beyond the tulips , 
an insect chorus
droned : 
we beat you up ; 
we beat you up .

The mountain thinks it's the same
without you but it's wrong . Maybe
the same stars whisking themselves
further off , the darker the brighter , 
same chamomile crushed underfoot
but the little , wiry dog we loved
has preceded us into paradise , not
that I expect to join her even though
my own crappy heart's worse , running's
out but I may be finally learning how
to sit in a chair . I still don't know
what to call the good morning bird
although whatever word'd be no truer
than manzanita . I think namelessness
has a crush on me , on how clean
I keep my room , the usual stunned
ruckus of wake up . But it's a different
moon , different woman on the hotel balcony
yet the same kinda scary , vacant stare , 
caryatid foreseeing what ? Before
turning back to the customary , immaculate
vacation squalor inside . The cash machine
still says " enter to exit " but there's
more water in the creek than I've ever seen , 
the brighter the darker , in that first dream
there was none .

Offer your usual posy of goatheads . Proffer
sharp garlands of thistle & Incas' thin down ; 
of squash bugs strung on blighted stems ; send
back necklaced every reeking pearl I crushed , 
each egg cluster that I scraped away with knife
or twig or thumbnail . Wake me sweat - laced
from a dream of hidden stables : the gentle foals
atremble , stem - legged , long - neglected . Dear
drought our summer's corn was overrun again
with weed & cheat ; the bitter zinnias fell to bits . 
Dear yearlings our harvest is lattice & husk .

What will be served for our reception
in the devastation ? Finger food , of course
and white wine , something printed on the napkins . 
We were not children together
but we are now . Every bird knows
only two notes constantly rearranged . 
That's called forever so we wear pajamas
to the practice funeral , buckeroos
to the end . We make paper hats
of headlines and float them away . 
My home made of smoke , 
tiny spider made of punctuation , 
my favorite poem is cinder
scratched into a sidewalk . 
My friend's becoming the simplest man , 
he sees a lesson in everything , 
in missing his train , 
in his son hollering from the first branch , 
Dad , guess where I am . 
I was with him for my first magpies , 
governmental and acting like hell . 
And the new nickel
with Washington hard to recognize . 
We'd driven by a Rabbit flattened
by an upset truck , jars of Miracle Whip
broken over the toll road in heavy snow . 
We watched an old lady
eat a hot dog in a bun
with a knife and fork . 
A few emeralds winged off
a fruit leaf . 
What happens when your head splits open
and the bird flies out , its two notes deranged ? 
You got better , I got better , 
wildflowers rimmed the crater , 
glitter glitter glitter . 
We knew someone whose father died
then we knew ourselves . 
Astronomer , gladiator , 
thief , a tombstone salesman . 
All our vacations went to the sea
that breathed two times a day
without a machine . 
We got in trouble with a raft
doing what we promised not to . 
Further out to be brought further back . 
There's my friend in his squashed hat
trying to determine if a dot
is a living thing and do no harm . 
He's having trouble remembering street names
but there's still plenty of Thoreau . 
All that a human is made of is gold , 
very very little gold .

Death calls my dog by the wrong name . 
A little man when I was small , Death grew
Beside me , always taller , but always
Confused as I have almost never been . 
Confusion , like the heart , gets left behind
Early by a boy , abandoned the very moment
Futurity with her bare arms comes a - waltzing
Down the fire escapes to take his hand . 
 " Death , " I said , " if your eyes were green
I would eat them . " 
For what are days but the furnace of an eye ? 
If I could strip a sunflower bare to its bare soul , 
I would rebuild it : 
Green inside of green , ringed round by green . 
There'd be nothing but new flowers anymore . 
Absolute Christmas . 
 " Death , " I said , " I know someone , a woman , 
Who sank her teeth into the moon . " 
For what are space and time but the inventions
Of sorrowing men ? The soul goes faster than light . 
Eating the moon alive , it leaves space and time behind . 
The soul is forgiveness because it knows forgiveness . 
And the knowledge is whirligig . 
Whirligig taught me to live outwardly . 
Shoe shop ... pizza parlor ... surgical appliances ... 
All left behind me with the hooey . 
My soul is my home . 
An old star hounded by old starlight . 
 " Death , I ask you , whose only story
Is the end of the story , right from the start , 
How is it I remember everything
That never happened and almost nothing that did ? 
Was I ever born ? " 
I think of the suicides , all of them thriving , 
Many of them painting beautiful pictures . 
I think of boys and girls murdered
In their first beauty , now with children of their own . 
And I have a church in my mind , set cruelly ablaze , 
And then the explosion of happy souls
Into the greeny , frozen Christmas Eve air : 
Another good Christmas , a white choir . 
Beside each other still , 
My Death and I are a magical hermit . 
Dear Mother , I miss you . 
Dear reader , your eyes are now green , 
Green as they used to be , before I was born .

It's true I never write , but I would gladly die with you . 
Gladly lower myself down alone with you into the enormous mouth
that waits , beyond youth , beyond every instant of ecstasy , remember : 
before battle we would do each other's makeup , comb each other's
hair out
saying we are unconquerable , we are terrible and splendid - 
the mouth waiting , patiently waiting . And I will meet you there
again
beyond bleeding thorns , the endless dilation , the fire that alters
nothing ; 
I am there already past snowy clouds , balding moss , dim
swarm of stars even we can step over , it is easier this time , I promise - 
I am already waiting in your personal heaven , here is my hand , 
I will help you across . I would gladly die with you still , 
although I never write
from this gray institution . See
they are so busy trying to cure me , 
I'm condemned - sorry , I have been given the job
of vacuuming the desert forever , well , no more than eight hours
a day . 
And it's really just about a thousand miles of cafeteria ; 
a large one in any event . With its miniature plastic knives , 
its tuna salad and Saran - Wrapped genitalia will somebody
please
get me out of here , sorry . I am happy to say that
every method , massive pharmaceuticals , art therapy
and edifying films as well as others I would prefer
not to mention - I mean , every single technique
known to the mouth - sorry ! - to our most kindly
compassionate science is being employed
to restore me to normal well - being
and cheerful stability . I go on vacuuming
toward a small diamond light burning
off in the distance . Remember
me . Do you
remember me ? 
In the night's windowless darkness
when I am lying cold and numb
and no one's fiddling with the lock , or
shining flashlights in my eyes , 
although I never write , secretly
I long to die with you , 
does that count ?

As anyone
is apt to , you began as someone
else's symptom . As in
other beginnings : drawn lots , blood , 
some dancing on the heads of pins
and inside needles' eyes , 
cellular revelry , 
hopping
of microscopic
turnstiles . Lucky guest , 
grist , leapt
long odds to spark
the tinder in the dark . 
Then , the subcommittees met : 
made merry in duplicate , triplicate
and so on , much of themselves , divided
and divined and concurred . 
All sides insides , pre - ambulatory
perambulation meant : sure
ambit , short orbit
in a warm aquarium set
to the muffled music of a single sphere . 
As in other beginnings : parting seas , the future's
violent egress , screams and sutures , 
aftermath's average agony
on umbilical belay
but soon to solo , unfold all
those origami limbs to test
the inevitable debutante bawl . 
Wrest from the nest
and the rest is you , dear : 
dressed for the bright lights
in bits of my sister .

All afternoon I walk behind the mower , 
Imagining , though paradoxically , 
That even though the grass is getting lower , 
What I have cut is like a rising sea ; 
The parts I haven't cut , with every pass , 
Resemble real geography , a map , 
A shrinking island continent of grass
Where shoreline vanishes with every lap . 
At last , the noise and smell of gasoline
Dispel my dream . What sea ? Peninsulas ? 
They were the lands my inner child had seen , 
Their little Yucatans and Floridas . 
But when I'm finished , and Yard goes back to Lawn , 
I can't help thinking that a world is gone .

Touch and go . Our Cessna bumped the sand , 
thumped its tundra tires , 
lifted as if on wires , 
banked over ice and rocked its wings to land . 
We pitched our camp hard by the Hubbard's face , 
some sixty fathoms tall , 
a seven - mile - long wall
seven leagues from Yakutat , our base . 
Crack ! A blue serac tottered and gave . 
Stunned at the water's edge , 
we fled our vantage ledge
like oyster catchers skittering from a wave . 
Separation has become my fear . 
What was does not console , 
what is , is past control - 
the disembodiment that looms so near . 
Detachment ? So an ice cliff by the sea
calves with a seismic crash
of bergy bits and brash , 
choking a waterway with its debris . 
We clear the neap tide beach of glacial wrack , 
pace and mark the ground , 
then wave the Cessna round . 
Pilot , we bank on you to bear us back .

Sprawling like some small group of picnickers , 
They're propped among the shadows of the trees , 
Though one seems drunk , spread - eagled . Nothing stirs
Except the flies that clog their cavities . 
A red cleft rules the parting of that head . 
You stretch a little and slide out of bed . 
Acres of debris are in sodden flood
About the ruined village , which concedes
In blackened matchwood to the tide of mud
Its smoking households . Rising from the weeds , 
Arms reach up stiffly , as for an embrace . 
Out of the mirror you observe your face
While sunlight offers all that you desire . 
The Aztecs , to appease your counterparts , 
Would hook still - living bodies from the fire , 
Hack out and hold aloft the pulsing hearts , 
Drenching the steps with blood , so they might give
Those idle brutes each day a day to live . 
You have today . Stark - eyed and hollow - faced , 
Her rigid ribcage almost bursting through
The skin , a girl sits in a land laid waste
And stares out blankly . So then , it is you - 
The thought had not occurred to you before - 
It's you , Huitzilopochtli , God of War .

With her hair closely cropped up to the nape
Like Dorian Apollo's , the girl lay on the narrow
Pallet , keeping her limbs stiffly frozen
Within a heavy cloud she could not escape ...
Artemis emptied her quiver - every arrow
Shot through her body . And though very soon
She'd be no virgin , like cold honeycomb , 
Her virgin thighs still kept her pleasure sealed ...
As if to the arena , the youth came
Oiled with myrrh , and like a wrestler kneeled
To pin her down ; and although he broke past
Her arms that she had thrust against his chest , 
Only much later , with one cry , face to face , 
Did they join lips , and out of their sweat , embrace ...

At Waffle House , they fired her on the spot : 
 " You talk too much ! " 
She'd told her customers
That " made " gets " mad " and " poet " goes to " pot " 
Without the letter e . The " amateurs , " 
She'd said , " inherit everything : the sand , 
The stars , the world that only God possesses . " 
While washing dishes with a bleeding hand , 
She'd told them , " through 'possession's' double 'esses'
There's a line that cleaves ; things come apart ; 
'Refrain' means both 'hold back' and 'go again' ; 
Things join in wholes of which they are a part . " 
She " touched " the people . Was it such a sin ? 
Her broken pencil left a double line
On my tab , both legible as one design .

For near is where you'll meet what you have wandered
far to find . And near is where you'll very likely see
how far the near obtains . In the dark katholikon
the lighted candles lent their gold to give the eye
a more than common sense of what lay flickering
just beyond the ken , and lent the mind a likely
swoon just shy of apprehension . It was then
that time's neat artifice fell in and made for us
a figure for when time would slip free altogether . 
I have no sense of what this means to you , so little
sense of what to make of it myself , save one lit glimpse
of how we live and move , a more expansive sense in Whom .

Wake up , your dreams are bad ! 
Stay awake , the nightmarishness is coming ever nearer . 
To you too it is coming , though you live far from
the places of bloodshed , 
even to you and your sacrosanct
afternoon nap . 
If not today , then tomorrow , 
but it will certainly come . 
 " Oh , pleasant sleep
on the cushions embroidered with red flowers , 
Anita's Christmas present to you , she sat over the stitching for
all of three weeks , 
oh , pleasant sleep , 
following the juicy roast and the sprouts boiled to pulp . 
As you drift off you think of yesterday's
Fox evening news : 
frolicsome Easter lambs , the stirrings of nature , the opening of the new
casino in Baden - Baden , 
with their new Australian coach , the Light Blues pip the Dark Blues
by two and a half lengths
in the Varsity Race - 
more than enough there to occupy the brain . 
Oh the soft cushion , the first class goose down ! 
Lying on it , you forget the irritations of the world , this
item for instance : 
the doctor accused of procuring an abortion said in his
defense : 
the woman had seven children already , and she came to me with
her youngest
swaddled in newspaper
because she was unable to afford diapers . 
Well , these are the court's affairs , not ours . 
There's nothing to be done if a has a cushier time of it than b , 
and , whatever happens , our grandchildren can sort it out . " 
 " Ah , asleep already ? A pleasant waking then , friend ! 
The current is already live in the wire kraal , and the
sentries have been posted . " 
No , don't sleep while the arrangers of the world are busy ! 
Be suspicious of the power they claim
to have to acquire on your behalf ! 
Stay awake to be sure that your hearts are not empty , when
others calculate on the emptiness of your hearts ! 
Do what is unhelpful , sing songs from out of your mouths
that go against expectation ! 
Be ornery , be as sand , not oil in the thirsty machinery
of the world !

Every day a wilderness - no
shade in sight . Beulah
patient among knickknacks , 
the solarium a rage
of light , a grainstorm
as her gray cloth brings
dark wood to life . 
Under her hand scrolls
and crests gleam
darker still . What
was his name , that
silly boy at the fair with
the rifle booth ? And his kiss and
the clear bowl with one bright
fish , rippling
wound ! 
Not Michael - 
something finer . Each dust
stroke a deep breath and
the canary in bloom . 
Wavery memory : home
from a dance , the front door
blown open and the parlor
in snow , she rushed
the bowl to the stove , watched
as the locket of ice
dissolved and he
swam free . 
That was years before
Father gave her up
with her name , years before
her name grew to mean
Promise , then
Desert - in - Peace . 
Long before the shadow and
sun's accomplice , the tree . 
Maurice . 
November 1981

Each day as dawn approaches , 
the King sits in majesty
and blesses the holy creatures : 
To you , my creatures , I speak , 
before you I declare - 
Creatures who bear the throne of my glory
with all your heart , and willingly with your soul - 
Blessed is the hour of your creation , 
and exalted is the constellation
beneath which I gave you form . 
May the light of that morning continue to shine
when you came into my mind - 
for you are a vessel of my desire
prepared and perfected on that day . 
Be silent , creatures of my making , 
so I might hear my children pray .

You've got to understand that sighting the pair
of eagles over the block , right over our house , 
not more than twenty feet above the roof , 
so massive their wings pull at the corrugated
tin sheeting even with gentlest tilt , counteracts
bitterness against all the damage I see and hear
around me on an exclusively crisp blue morning , 
when clarity is pain and even one small missing
wattle tree , entirely vanquished since I was last here
at home - I still find this hard to say - is agony ; 
a region is not a pinpoint and a different compass
works in my head , having magnetics for all
directions and all pointing to one spot
I know and observe as closely as possible ; 
and even one small vanished or vanquished
wattle tree is agony close to death for me , 
where I find it hard to breathe to feed myself
to get past the loss ; but the pair of eagles
still appearing and keeping their sharp
and scrupulous eyes honed , overrides
this ordeal , though I wish their victims
life too and their damage is traumatic
as anything else ; that's as much sense
or nonsense as I can make in such blue light .

I couldn't have waited . By the time you return
it would have rotted on the vine . 
So I cut the first tomato into eighths , 
salted the pieces in the dusk
and found the flesh not mealy ( like last year's ) 
or bitter , 
even when I swallowed the green crown of the stem
that made my throat feel dusty and warm . 
Pah . I could have gagged on the sweetness . 
The miser accused by her red sums . 
Better had I eaten the dirt itself
on this the first night in my life
when I have not been too busy for my loneliness - 
at last , it comes .

Spring , and the first full crop of dandelions gone
to smoke , the lawn lumpish with goldfinches , 
hunched in their fluffs , fattened by seed , 
alight in the wind - bared peduncular forest . 
Little bells , they loop and dive , bend
the delicate birch branches down . 
I would enter the sky through the soil
myself , sing up the snail bowers
and go on the lam with the roots . 
Licked by filaments , I would lie , 
a billion love - mouths to suckle and feed . 
Where the river will be next week , 
a puddle two trout go savagely dying in . 
Notice the bland , Darwinian sand : bone wrack
and tree skin , the ground down moon bowls
of mussels , viral stones dividing like mold . 
At twelve , I buried the frog because it was dead
and dug it up because I'd been dreaming - 
a fish belly light , a lowly chirruped chorus
of amens . I thought my nights might smell of hell . 
Bland , hum - drum , quotidian guilt - 
if I've killed one frog , I've killed two . 
Saint Rot and the sacraments of maggots : 
knowing is humus and sustenance is sex . 
It accrues and accrues , it stews
tumorous with delight . Tomorrow's
a shovelful , the spit of the cosmos , one day
the baby's breath is no longer a rose .

I know my friend is going , 
though she still sits there
across from me in the restaurant , 
and leans over the table to dip
her bread in the oil on my plate ; I know
how thick her hair used to be , 
and what it takes for her to discard
her man's cap partway through our meal , 
to look straight at the young waiter
and smile when he asks
how we are liking it . She eats
as though starving - chicken , dolmata , 
the buttery flakes of filo - 
and what's killing her
eats , too . I watch her lift
a glistening black olive and peel
the meat from the pit , watch
her fine long fingers , and her face , 
puffy from medication . She lowers
her eyes to the food , pretending
not to know what I know . She's going . 
And we go on eating .

Afloat between your lens
and your gaze , 
the last consideration to go
across my gray matter
and its salubrious
deliquescence
is
whether or not I'll swim , 
whether I'll be able to breathe , 
whether I'll live like before . 
I'm caught in the bubble
of your breath . 
It locks me in . 
Drives me mad . 
Confined to speak alone , 
I talk and listen , 
ask questions and answer myself . 
I hum , I think I sing , 
I breathe in , breathe in and don't explode . 
I'm no one . 
Behind the wall
of hydrogen and oxygen , 
very clear , almost illuminated , 
you allow me to think
that the Root of the Wind is Water
and the atmosphere
smells of salt and microbes and intimacy . 
And in that instant comes
the low echo
of a beyond beyond , 
a language archaic and soaked
in syllables and accents suited
for re - de - trans - forming , 
giving light , 
giving birth to
melanin
hidden within another skin : 
the hollow echo of the voice
which speaks alone .

Down in fame's flood , down an alley , down
wind of now , elegant in self - denial , 
an Iron Range wraith junking cue cards , an ideal , 
an idol before which the Zeitgeist kneeled . 
Dylan , named for a poet named from an old
tale of the child who crawled to the sea , this land
is yours : the black plain the needle
ploughs from lip to label ; be all , end all .

Little Enoch learned his colors from lettered blocks
 ( for a is the color of fleet , 
b is the color of war and demolition , 
c is the color of echo and blur , 
 & c . ) and built
a bricolage : 
So cab was a whirring warbler . 
bach was the Spanish Armada crashing
and crashing . 
And enoch he couldn't describe . 
And when it reached the height of Enoch , 
standing , he tore whole tongues
down to their colors .

Right shoulder aching with day - long butchery , 
Left shoulder numb with dints clanged on the shield , 
The hero is fouled with blood , his own and others' , 
First slick , then sticky , then caked , starting to mat
His beard - the armor deadweight all around him ; 
His teeth grit and rattle with every jolt
Of bronze - rimmed wheels behind the shit - flecked horses . 
But when he glimpses the mountains , the distant snow , 
A blankness swoons upon him , and he hears
Nothing but the white vowels of the wind
Brushing through stands of spears like conifers
While a banner slips its staff and hangs in the blue
Like a kestrel or a contrail . The hero's death , 
The prize , elusive quarry of his life , 
Stands stock - still in her cloven tracks in snow
And turns , one ear tuned to the creek's far bank , 
One dished towards him . Her unstartled gaze
Beads on him like a sniper's sights , until
At the clean report of a cracking poplar branch , 
She leaps away like luck , over rapid water , 
And snowfall scrims the scene like a mist of tears , 
Like a migraine , like sweat or blood streaming into your eyes .

A momentary rupture to the vision : 
the wavering limbs of a birch fashion
the fluttering hem of the deity's garment , 
the cooling cup of coffee the ocean the deity
waltzes across . This is enough - but sometimes
the deity's heady ta - da coaxes the cherries
in our mental slot machine to line up , and
our brains summon flickering silver like
salmon spawning a river ; the jury decides
in our favor , and we're free to see , for now . 
A flaw swells from the facets of a day , increasing
the day's value ; a freakish postage stamp mails
our envelope outside time ; hairy , claw - like
magnolia buds bloom from bare branches ; 
and the deity pops up again like a girl from
a giant cake . O deity : you transfixing transgressor , 
translating back and forth on the border
without a passport . Fleeing revolutions
of same - old simultaneous boredom and
boredom , we hoard epiphanies under the bed , 
stuff them in jars and bury them in the backyard ; 
we cram our closet with sunrise ; prop up our feet
and drink gallons of wow ! ; we visit the doctor
because all this is raising the blood's levels of
c6h3 ( oh ) 2chohch2nhch3 , the heart caught
in the deity's hem and haw , the oh unfurling
from our chest like a bee from our cup of coffee , 
an autochthonous greeting : there . Who saw it ?

Written on a slat of a railway car : 
If some time someone should find pearls
threaded on a blood - red string of silk
which , near the throat , runs all the thinner
like life's own path until it's gone
somewhere in a fog and can't be seen - 
If someone should find these pearls
let him know how - cool , aloof - they lit up
the eighteen - year - old , impatient heart
of the Paris dancing girl , Marie . 
Now , dragged through unknown Poland - 
I'm throwing my pearls through the grate . 
If they're found by a young man - 
let these pearls adorn his girlfriend . 
If they're found by a girl - 
let her wear them ; they belong to her . 
And if they're found by an old man - 
let him , for these pearls , recite a prayer .

Now is the time of year when bees are wild
and eccentric . They fly fast and in cramped
loop - de - loops , dive - bomb clusters of conversants
in the bright , late - September out - of - doors . 
I have found their dried husks in my clothes . 
They are dervishes because they are dying , 
one last sting , a warm place to squeeze
a drop of venom or of honey . 
After the stroke we thought would be her last
my grandmother came back , reared back and slapped
a nurse across the face . Then she stood up , 
walked outside , and lay down in the snow . 
Two years later there is no other way
to say , we are waiting . She is silent , light
as an empty hive , and she is breathing .

My poor students , all I ask of them
is to grow antennae , lie down with lava
and rise with snow , grow tongues from
their math assignments and no , Melissa , 
your mother won't approve of the bioluminescent
smear on your communion dress . The world fidgets
in uneasy relationship to our statements
about it nevertheless producing silver
buds from ragged limbs like the luster
in late Frank Sinatra songs . Finally , 
when I got off the sixth floor , I felt
like I was walking out into the sky
and aren't we all pedestrians of air ? 
Doesn't it feel all wrong to turn our backs
on the ocean ? On an ant ? On those Chagall
windows you have to go through a gauntlet
of ancient armor to get to ? What was her name , 
that night nurse so deft her blood draws
didn't wake me up ? Don't get me wrong , I want
to wake up . I want my old dog to show me
all that wolf - light she hides inside
even though she thinks I won't understand , 
even though her vet and I conspire
to keep her alive forever .

Brown . Brandy - brown . Leaf - brown . Russet . 
Malayan yellow . 
Express train Berlin - Trelleborg and the Baltic resorts . 
Flesh that went naked . 
Tanned unto the mouth by the sea . 
Deeply ripened for Grecian joys . 
How far along the summer , in sickle - submissiveness ! 
Penultimate day of the ninth month ! 
Parched with stubble and the last corn - shocks . 
Unfurlings , blood , fatigue , 
deranged by dahlia - nearness . 
Man - brown jumps on woman - brown . 
A woman is something for a night . 
And if you enjoyed it , then the next one too ! 
O ! And then the return to one's own care . 
The not - speaking ! The urges ! 
A woman is something with a smell . 
Ineffable ! To die for ! Mignonette . 
Shepherd , sea , and South . 
On every declivity a bliss . 
Woman - brown drapes itself on man - brown : 
Hold me ! I'm falling ! 
My neck is so weary . 
Oh , the sweet last
fevered scent from the gardens .

Dear Friend , " Called away " from my country , 
I square the egg and put it in a letter
that all may read , gilding each word a little
so that touched , it yields to a secret
stirring , a small gold bird on a spring
suddenly appearing to sing a small song
of regret , elation , that overspills all private
bounds , although you ask , as I do , what now
do we sing to , sing for ? Before the Great War , 
I made a diamond - studded coach three inches high
with rock crystal windows and platinum wheels
to ceremoniously convey a speechless egg to Court . 
All for a bored Czarina ! My version of history
fantastic and revolutionary as I reduced the scale
to the hand - held dimensions of a fairy tale , 
hiding tiny Imperial portraits and cameos
in eggs of pearl and bone . Little bonbons , caskets ! 
The old riddle of the chicken and the egg
is answered thus : in the Belle Epoque
of the imagination , the egg came first , containing , 
as it does , both history and uncertainty , my excesses
inducing unrest among those too hungry to see
the bitter joke of an egg one cannot eat . 
Oblique oddity , an egg is the most beautiful of all
beautiful forms , a box without corners
in which anything can be contained , anything
except Time , that old jeweler who laughed
when he set me ticking . Here , among the clocks
and watches of a country precisely ordered
and dying , I am not sorry , I do not apologize . 
Three times I kiss you in memory
of that first Easter , that first white rising , 
and send this message as if it could save you : 
Even the present is dead . We must live now
in the future . Yours , Faberge .

But where , oh where is the holy idiot , 
truth teller and soothsayer , familiar
of spirits , rat eater , unhouseled wanderer
whose garble and babble fill rich and poor , 
homeless and housed , with awe and fear ? 
Is he hiding in the pit of the walkie - talkie , 
its grid of holes insatiably hungry , 
almost like a baby , sucking in the police sergeant's
quiet voice as he calls in reinforcements ? 
Oh holy idiot , is that you sniffing the wind
for the warm turd smell on the mounted policemen
backing their horses' quivering , skittish
haunches into the demonstrators' faces ? 
Oh little village among the villages , 
the wild man , the holy Bedlamite is gone , 
and nobody , now , knows where to find him ...
Lying in mud ? lying caked in mud , hair elfed into knots ? 
Some poor mad Tom roving the heath
for a warm soft place to lie his body down , 
his speech obsessed with oaths , demons , 
his tongue calling forth the Foul Fiend , Flibbertigibbet
as the horses back slowly , slowly into the crowd
and he eats filth , he crams his ravenous mouth with filth - 
and then he sits on his stool in the trampled hay
and deep - rutted mud , he anoints himself
with ashes and clay , he puts on his crown
of fumiter weed and holds his scepter
of a smouldering poker and calls the court to order .

A man reaches close
and lifts a quarter
from inside a girl's ear , 
from her hands takes a dove
she didn't know was there . 
Which amazes more , 
you may wonder : 
the quarter's serrated murmur
against the thumb
or the dove's knuckled silence ? 
That he found them , 
or that she never had , 
or that in Portugal , 
this same half - stopped moment , 
it's almost dawn , 
and a woman in a wheelchair
is singing a fado
that puts every life in the room
on one pan of a scale , 
itself on the other , 
and the copper bowls balance .

The heat so peaked tonight
the moon can't cool
a scum - mucked swimming
pool , or breeze
emerge to lift the frowsy
ruff of owls too hot
to hoot , ( the mouse and brown
barn rat astute
enough to know to drop
and dash ) while
on the bunched up , 
corkscrewed sheets of cots
and slumped brass beds , 
the fitful twist
and kink and plead to dream
a dream of air
as bitter cruel as winter
gale that scrapes and blows
and gusts the grate
to luff
the whitened ashes from the coal .

Olive seashells
in the air
you can eat . 
The very inner of the inner ear
in the breeze . 
Last night my son dreamt
about falling
out of trees . 
I had almost forgotten
that we were
simians . 
The fiddlehead turns
on itself but only ever in love . 
Green cinnamon roll , 
a snake too small to hunt
anyone . 
Curled in like my son's
fingers , his fists . 
More beautiful than
a spider fern , 
spun - in island , 
moldy tongue of a hippopotamus , 
the eye of the forest . 
When my son wakes up
screaming
I don't pick him up
right away . 
I tell him where he is and who
I am . 
At night all the fiddlehead
wants to do is sleep . 
When I sleep
I dream about death adders curling
around his soft
body , 
all of us making the same kinds of sounds .

The smallness of this
colloquial cannot
muffle the full morning orchestra - 
amphibious greens
clotting the trickle
of thaw . The tinny
fin flip and eyeflake flash - 
small schools that
give shimmer in the dull
skulk of wind . 
 ( cry one
pure perennial
I can't
doubt ) 
 ( something by which to ) 
where we are
wearing our
belts
a little tighter - 
rotted out boat
bottom : 
the boat
will stay afloat
as long as you pretend to
row
In meadows
let alone , 
gravid stems
erupt - 
hale
yellows . 
Gravid stems
erupt . 
The hale
yellows pale once
they're plucked .

Aluminum tank
indifferent in its place
behind a glass door
in the passageway , 
like a tea urn
in a museum case ; 
screaming - machines
that dumbly spend each day
waiting for gas or smoke
or hands or heat , 
positioned like beige land mines
overhead , 
sanguine on walls , 
or posted on the street
like dwarf grandfather clocks
spray painted red ; 
little gray hydrant
in its warlike stance ; 
old fire escape , 
all - weather paint job peeling , 
a shelf for threadbare rugs
and yellowing plants ; 
sprinkler heads , 
blooming from the public ceiling ; 
all sitting
supernaturally still , 
waiting for us to cry out . 
And we will .

All evening I hunted
the bird that wanted
a cage of glass , 
here where cemetery
slides into creek , fronting
what was once the largest
indoor leather mill in the world . 
There the skins gathered
for cleansing , coloring , 
scraping , shipping off . 
It closed three years after
a lone sparrow set up camp
behind the only desk
in the only full - serve
service station left in town
where , from four to seven
nightly one summer , 
I blackened the pages
of books with my thumbs . 
Whatever it sought there - 
thumping its frightened body
against glass , into cabinets
or out to the bays
scrubbed raw with gasoline
where the broken waited
to be raised up , hosed off , 
fastened together in hope
of coughing to life again - 
whatever it sought was not a dollar
slipped through a window cracked
because patronage was right
for the aging ladies of August to provide
from Chryslers cool in the sun . 
There was nothing to be found
in books or boxes of parts . 
And the tools hanging from pegs
were as useless as my hands , 
which could not patch together
those straggling conveyances
any more than I could
with a tattered broom
batter the bird to freedom
as I swung at fluttering terror
as I sought with useless devices
some fortune reposed
in corners of grease and dust .

Her body like a pomegranate torn
Wide open , somehow bears what must be born , 
The irony where a stranger small enough
To bed down in the ox - tongue - polished trough
Erupts into the world and breaks the spell
Of the ancient , numbered hours with his yell . 
Now her breasts ache and weep and soak her shirt
Whenever she hears his hunger or his hurt ; 
She can't change water into wine ; instead
She fashions sweet milk out of her own blood .

we went into a market - they call it a grocery - and you can't imagine . fruit brilliant as magazine photos . all kinds of different oranges , grapefruits , mandarins , some tiny clementines with a blue sticker - Morocco - they've come so far ...the eggs are painted with colors corresponding to the days of the week you're supposed to eat them : a different color for each opportunity . i felt dizzy , the gulf between myself and this place seemed insuperable . tears welled up in my eyes , i wanted desperately to flee , to get outside so i could breathe . i wanted to explain to Phillis , the North American who had invited me , what was happening to me . i tried , but she couldn't understand : you have to have felt it yourself : the first time . for the first time my mind had crossed over five hundred years of development at jet speed and arrived in the future , a cold future , its display cases filled with artificial snow and artificial heat . there were a thousand things i never knew existed , a panoply of brand names and gadgets for every purpose . i felt like someone from the stone age , and realized most people on the planet never know the era they're living in , any more than they could know the quantity of living matter in this galaxy that surrounds us , or the milky complexity of the molecules in their own brains , and what's more they don't know that they'll die without ever knowing . i felt terror of that gloss , of the waxed fruit , of propaganda so refined it could dilute the existence of the strange things before my eyes , other sensations : everything wanting to be used up , immediately , licked , tasted , eaten , packaged , mastered . i knew i couldn't stand this avalanche , this brilliant swarm , for long , these rows on rows of distant faces staring out at me from cardboard boxes . i'd seen nothing singular in the place , no unique thing i could separate out from the amorphous mass of texture and sensation . i began to move closer , imagining i walked with those who have never eaten meat or tasted cow's milk , who have never nursed except from the teat of a goat . those who have had only wildflowers to chew when the winter hunger comes . i approached closer still , imagining i walked with the salty ones , who collect their water from the public pipe . my nose began to bleed and Phillis said it was the cold ; i knew that wasn't the problem . we were near the seafood display , i moved closer . fish have always aroused in me both horror and desire . i moved closer , like a lost child feeling her way through space toward something of hers that's hidden . i brushed the shells with my fingertips , they were smooth and delicate , but obviously artificial , made to be used once and thrown away . at first touch they might seem real , pearly , perfect , but they're actually plastic , and they've never even seen any sea .

The two of them stood in the middle water , 
The current slipping away , quick and cold , 
The sun slow at his zenith , sweating gold , 
Once , in some sullen summer of father and daughter . 
Maybe he regretted he had brought her - 
She'd rather have been elsewhere , her look told - 
Perhaps a year ago , but now too old . 
Still , she remembered lessons he had taught her : 
To cast towards shadows , where the sunlight fails
And fishes shelter in the undergrowth . 
And when the unseen strikes , how all else pales
Beside the bright - dark struggle , the rainbow wroth , 
Life and death weighed in the shining scales , 
The invisible line pulled taut that links them both .

This is the day the flies fall awake mid - sentence
and lie stunned on the windowsill shaking with speeches
only it isn't speech it is trembling sections of puzzlement which
break off suddenly as if the questioner had been shot
this is one of those wordy days
when they drop from their winter quarters in the curtains and sizzle as they fall
feeling like old cigarette butts called back to life
blown from the surface of some charred world
and somehow their wings which are little more than flakes of dead skin
have carried them to this blackened disembodied question
what dirt shall we visit today ? 
what dirt shall we re - visit ? 
they lift their faces to the past and walk about a bit
trying out their broken thought - machines
coming back with their used - up words
there is such a horrible trapped buzzing wherever we fly
it's going to be impossible to think clearly now until next winter
what should we
what dirt should we

The loneliest days , 
damp and indistinct , 
sea and land a haze . 
And purple fog horns
blossomed over tides - 
bruises being born
in silence , so slow , 
so out there , around , 
above and below . 
In such hurts of sound
the known world became
neither flat nor round . 
The steaming tea pot
was all we fathomed
of is and is not . 
The hours were hallways
with doors at the ends
opened into days
fading into night
and the scattering
particles of light . 
Nothing was done then . 
Nothing was ever
done . Then it was done .

Last night I awoke knew
That I should say goodbye now
To these verses . That's how it always goes
After a few years . They have to get out
Into the world . It's not possible to keep them
Forever ! here under the roof . 
Poor things . They must set out for town . 
A few will be allowed to return later . 
But most of them are still hanging around out there . 
Who knows what will become of them . Before they
Find their peace .

My mother sends me a black - and - white
photograph of her and my father , circa
1968 , posing with two Indian men . 
 " Who are those Indian guys ? " I ask her
on the phone . 
 " I don't know , " she says . 
The next obvious question : " Then why
did you send me this photo ? " But I don't
ask it . 
One of those strange Indian men is
pointing up toward the sky . 
Above them , a bird shaped like a
question mark .

The deer racing across a field
of the same clay and tallow
color they are - if they are : 
or are they tricks of the light ? - 
must feel themselves being poured
and pouring through life . We're not built
but become : trembling columns
of apprehension that ripple
and pass those ripples to and fro
with the world that shakes around us - 
it too is something poured
and ceaselessly pouring itself . 
February shakes the fields
and trembles in each yellow willow . 
The violin's back is not veneer - 
the strummed wood shudders together . 
Undivided by caution
each note is its own first thought . 
My first thought's a kind of prayer
that I might resonate entire - 
sometimes it's such a meager portion
shaking a little , as if it ought ...
Every day , the same desire
to push myself through the door
that leads to some bright place , 
brighter than the concert platform , 
where the whole self echoes together - 
the outer to the inner pleasure . 
Everything runs together - 
the light smells of spring , 
the unreasonable brightness
of this peg , this sheet , this line tethering
linen between sky and mud
as if the garden marked a pause
in that eternal return
whose looping trace is the blood
hissing through the ventricles . 
What gives you life's the thing that kills . 
Until you spill the lip
trembling on its bright liquid
all you need's this play of surface - 
all that you need . All you have .

On limbs of slanted light
painted with my mind's skin color , 
I step upon black braids , 
oil - drenched , worming
from last month's orphaned mouth . 
Winged with burning - 
I ferry them
from my filmed eyes , wheezing . 
Scalp blood in my footprints - 
my buckskin pouch filling
with photographed sand . 
No language but its rind
crackling in the past tense . 
Tearing apart cloud names - 
pierced fog commands : 
douse the inferno's ribs
with opaque forgetting ; 
clip dawn from the book's dusk , 
unfasten the song's empty auditorium
over a garden of mute foals . 
Tearing apart fog names - 
pierced cloud sings : 
let them shriek from their hinges , 
let them slice their gills open
with flint knives
and circle their ghosts
as frog - skinned antelope , 
let them drag their legs over a trail
anchored to a ladder
that has soaked up blood
since land began crawling out of anthills . 
Slipping into free fall , 
we drip - pattern : the somewhere parts , 
our shoulders dissolving
in somewhere mud . 
The arcing sun whistles
across the mask's abalone brow , 
its blurring pouts into a forest
chirping from a lake's bite marks
stamped vertically on this map's windowsill . 
Kneeling our thoughts on ellipses
evaporating from ollas of fragrant wet clay - 
we saddle the drowning's slippery rim .

The fair wind failed . The wind dropped . Winds were unfavourable
straightaway . The favourable wind dropped and they were beset by
storms so that they made little progress . Then the wind dropped and
they were beset by winds from the north and fog ; for many days they
did not know where they were sailing . The fair wind failed and they
wholly lost their reckoning . They did not know from what direction . 
Driven here and there . The fog was so dense that they lost all sense
of direction and lost their course at sea . There was much fog and the
winds were light and unfavourable . They drifted far and wide on the
high sea . Most of those on board completely lost their reckoning . 
The crew had no idea in which direction they were steering . A thick
fog which did not lift for days . The ship was driven off course to
land . They were tossed about at sea for a long time and failed to
reach their destination . We embarked and sailed but a fog so thick
covered us that we could scarcely see the poop or the prow of the
boat
Then the wind ddroppe and they were beset by w inds from then
orth and fog for manyd ays they did not know where they were
sailing Thef air wind f ailed and they wholly l ost their reck their
reckoning did not not know from what direction D riven here and
there The f og was sodense that they l ost all ss ense of dirrrtion and
l ost thr course at sea There was much fog and the w inds were light
and unf and unfavourable They driftedf ar and wide on the high sea
Mo stof those onboard completly l ost l ost l ost their reckoning Th
ec rew had no idea in which direction they were ststeering A thick
fo g which d i d n ot l ift for days The sh ip was driven offf course tol
and They were ossted about astea for a longt ime and f iled tor each
their destination We mbarkt and sailed but a fog so th but a fog so
th but a fog so th th th th thik k overed us that we could scarcely see
the poop or the prow of the boa t
str ght w Th f r w nd f l d Th w nd dr pp d Th f v r bl
w nd dr pp d nd th w r b s t b st rms s th t th m d
l ttl pr gr ss Th n th w nd dr pp d nd th w r b s t by w nds
fr m the n rth nd f g f r m ny d ys th y d d n t kn w wh r th y
w r s l ng Th f r w nd f l d nd th y wh ll l st th r r ck th r
r ck n ng Th y d d n t kn w fr m wh t d r ct n D r v n h r nd
th r Th f g w s s d ns th t th y l st ll ss ns f d rrrt n nd
l st thr c rs t s Th r w s m ch f g nd th w nds w r l ght
nd unf nd nf v r bl They dr ft df r nd w d n th h gh s
M st f th se nb rd c mpl tly l st l st l st th r r ck n ng Th
c r w h d
n d n wh ch d r ct n th y w r stst ring th ck f g wh ch d
d n t l ft f r d ys The sh p
w s dr ven fff c rse t l nd Th y w r sst d b t st f r
l ngt me and f led t r ch th r
d st n tion W mb rkt nd s l d b t f g s th b t f g s th b t
f g s th th th th th k k v r d
s th t w c ld sc rc ly s th p p r th pr w f th b t f the
b t of the b t the b
b s t b st rms s th t th m d l ttl pr gr ss Th n th w nd
dr pp d nd th w r b s t by w
The sh p w s dr ven fff c rse t l nd Th y w r sst d b t
st f r
l ngt me and f led t r ch th r d st n tion W mb rkt nd s l d
b t f g
s th b t f g s th b t f g s th th th th th k k v r d s th t w
c ld sc rc ly s th p p r th pr w f th b t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
t t t t t t
t go
t go off
t go off course
t go off course hafville
t be lost forvillet hafville Ache come off course hafville
Did not go where I was knowing hafville Had fear wildering hafville
For a minute there I lost myself Totally at sea lost myway tossed misted
lost mywill in the fog hafville hafville my love
Major Tom hafville
Li Bai hafville
Rimbaud hafville
Shelley hafville
Amelia Earhart hafville
Jeff Buckley hafville
Spalding Gray hafville
Virginia Woolf hafville
Albert Ayler hafville
Reinaldo Arenas hafville
Hart Crane hafville
Ingeborg Bachmann hafville
When you rise from the dead , 
when I rise from the dead , 
the hangman will hang at the gate
the hammer will sink into the sea
Kom ut av kursen hafville Secgan at come hafvillur ok darkens
ok myrkr ok hafvillur ok thokur ok hafvillur Cannot pokker see
through this thokur Hwaer hwanon never knew hu how to steer
out of this rook this moss droomly wetter stoutair mattersea thick
dank shadoway Lost lost all reckoning the sea coagulated All wats
not - light all wats not - dark Deadlockit Beat bells ! Blow foghorns ! 
Storm the ceiling ! Set my head on fire ! Lightup ! this d arkness for a
bearing thour pis halla
Beat bells blow foghorns ! Gebangbang for rumbly lowe ! 
When will the wind come ? Where will the wind from come ? 
Will it come from the naught , bringing phobias and rationing ? 
Will it come from the soot , bringing droughts and epidemics ? 
Will it come from the feast , fleeding crops and arteries ? 
Will it come from the waste , bringing seizures and military uprisings ? 
When will the wind come ? Where will the wind from come ? 
Will it come from the clog , causing jellyfish fission shutdown ? 
Will it come from the leak , bringing mass dispersion radiation ? 
When will the wind come ? Where will the wind from come ? 
Will it be an empty confusing windup ? Will it be a tempestuous hooley ? 
Will it be a blippy huff 'n puff ? Will it be a good proper piner ? 
Heigh Ho and up she rises ! Heigh Ho and up she goes ! 
Beat bells ! Blow foghorns ! Loud metal gebangbang for rumbly love !

I'm in a plane that will not be flown into a building . 
It's a SAAB 340 , seats 40 , has two engines with propellers
is why I think of beanies , those hats that would spin
a young head into the clouds . The plane is red and loud
inside like it must be loud in the heart , red like fire
and fire engines and the woman two seats up and to the right
resembles one of the widows I saw on TV after the Towers
came down . It's her hair that I recognize , the fecundity of it
and the color and its obedience to an ideal , the shape
it was asked several hours ago to hold and has held , a kind
of wave that begins at the forehead and repeats with slight
variations all the way to the tips , as if she were water
and a pebble had been continuously dropped into the mouth
of her existence . We are eighteen thousand feet over America . 
People are typing at their laps , blowing across the fog of coffee , 
sleeping with their heads on the windows , on the pattern
of green fields and brown fields , streams and gas stations
and swimming pools , blue dots of aquamarine that suggest
we've domesticated the mirage . We had to kill someone , 
I believe , when the metal bones burned and the top
fell through the bottom and a cloud made of dust and memos
and skin muscled across Manhattan . I remember feeling
I could finally touch a rifle , that some murders
are an illumination of ethics , that they act as a word , 
a motion the brain requires for which there is
no syllable , no breath . The moment the planes had stopped , 
when we were afraid of the sky , there was a pause
when we could have been perfectly American , 
could have spent infinity dollars and thrown a million
bodies at finding the few , lasering our revenge
into a kind of love , the blood - hunger kept exact
and more convincing for its precision , an expression
of our belief that proximity is never the measure of guilt . 
We've lived in the sky again for some years and today
on my lap these pictures from Iraq , naked bodies
stacked into a pyramid of ha - ha and the articles
about broomsticks up the ass and the limbs of children
turned into stubble , we are punch - drunk and getting even
with the sand , with the map , with oil , with ourselves
I think listening to the guys behind me . There's a problem
in Alpena with an inventory control system , some switches
are being counted twice , switches for what I don't know - 
switches of humor , of faith - but the men are musical
in their jargon , both likely born in New Delhi
and probably Americans now , which is what the flesh
of this country has been , a grafted pulse , an inventory
of the world , and just as the idea of embrace
moves chemically into my blood , and I'm warmed
as if I've just taken a drink , a voice announces
we've begun our descent , and then I sense the falling .

Oh , I said , this is going to be . 
And it was . 
Oh , I said , this will never happen . 
But it did . 
And a purple fog descended upon the land . 
The roots of trees curled up . 
The world was divided into two countries . 
Every photograph taken in the first was of people . 
Every photograph taken in the second showed none . 
All of the girl children were named And . 
All of the boy children named Then .

After the murder , I called a meeting
to see if we were happy . I declared
I was not - I said I liked the man
we shot . You all disagreed with this . 
I asked if you knew him , his wife , 
none of you did . " Kill me , then , " 
I said . You all stared at me . " Why , 
Bernard ? Of course we won't . " 
 " Why not ? " I said . " He was a good
man , a better man than me . And
look at what I've brought you - 
rubbish , dodgy tales , dross . " 
 " Easy to dismiss that , " you said . 
 " We appreciated it all . And you
wandered the wild paths to bring
it back to us - your songs , your
legends , magic stories , your gold . " 
I thanked you , but shook my head . 
The good man was dead . I didn't care
what I'd brought you . I needed to go . 
I packed up my sagas , my song lyrics , 
my alchemy potions , my gold , and
I disappeared .

From here into the north , the ways are
dry . Yellow grass , 
thirst in the roots . In the hearts . 
It's all simple , but false . 
When I try to think history , 
the enormous vertebrae
of the dinosaur behind the purple beeches
in Invalidenstrasse , 
Bismarck in marble , 
and Benn , a nameplate on Bozener , lifeless . 
In the depths of the bunkers
on Potsdamer Platz in Berlin
are the shoes of Hitler's favorite horse . 
Profile of power : armor and helmet . 
In our pants pockets , we crumple
the banners . Full of satisfaction
we hear the flags splinter
in the fabric's darkness . 
Don't forget the poets' loaded dice . 
When iron rules again , 
we will have to console ourselves , 
adorn stones with smaller stones , 
the heart with water . 
 * * * 
Von hier in den Norden sind die Wege
trocken . Gelbes Gras , 
Durst in den Wurzeln . Im Herzen . 
Alles ist einfach , aber falsch . 
Wenn ich versuche , Geschichte zu denken , 
die riesigen Wirbelknochen
des Sauriers hinter den Blutbuchen
in der Invalidenstrasse , 
Bismarck in Marmor , 
und Benn , ein Klingelschild in der Bozener , leblos . 
In den Tiefen der Bunker
des Potsdamer Platzes in Berlin
liegen die Hufeisen von Hitlers Lieblingspferd . 
Profile der Macht : Harnisch und Helm . 
In der Hosentasche zerknicken wir
die Standarten . Voll Genugtuung
horen wir die Fahnen splittern
im Dunkel des Stoffs . 
Vergesst nicht die gefalschten Wurfel der Dichter . 
Wenn die Eisernen wieder herrschen , 
werden wir uns trosten mussen , 
Steine schmucken mit kleinen Steinen , 
mit Wasser das Herz .

The name itself is dismal . Stumbling
Into adulthood , I spent a year there , 
On a narrow , much interrupted street . 
My austere block had a single , sick tree . 
Tim Fender and I rented a row house
For only 50 bucks a month . Basically , 
It was a shell , bought by this gay man
Who thought he would fix it up , but
Grays Ferry made him so depressed , 
He just had to bolt . Being Catholic Irish , 
This hood couldn't have been congenial
To someone gay , unless he's a priest . 
Still , I seriously doubt the neighbors did
Or said anything . They certainly didn't
Show hostility to Tim or I , two art fags . 
Everyone suffered in Grays Ferry , and
In 1986 , it literally stank , for there were two
Huge lots filled with garbage , thanks to a
Twenty - day strike by Philly's garbage men . 
I had left art school without a degree , 
For why borrow money to learn painting
From all these failed artists ? Why not just
Slink somewhere and paint ? Though I never
Amounted to crap as a painter , I've taught
Myself to write , sort of , instead of hocking
My life to a bank , just so I could be misled
And muddled by stunted or puffed up typists . 
That year , I manned up and mainlined Celine's
Death on the Installment Plan and his Journey
To the End of the Night . After the first
Paragraph of Death , I knew there were risks
To reading further , but until I could finish all
One thousand - plus pages of these books , I
Didn't leave the house . It took me a week , 
Then I started my own novel , from which
I'd read on UPenn's WXPN . 
The response was great , actually , but
People were just astonished by my
On - air delirium , for the writing
Was a goofy mess . I had to toss it . 
 ( WXPN liked my raving so much , 
It even made me a host , until I
Really went nuts on a live show . ) 
The Grays Ferry shell was freezing . 
I ate badly , drank rather well , kissed
Rachel upside down , bit her lips , and
Not in a nice way , either . I apologized , 
And I'm saying sorry again , for one
Can never say sorry enough . I'm sorry . 
Any lived life will trail loose ends , but what
Are unforgivable are malice and betrayal . 
For a month , Tim had a boyfriend then , 
Much later , told me he wasn't really gay . 
I wasn't too gay , myself , for my prospects
As human , artist and writer were pathetic . 
Irrelevant , young artists and writers lie
On gray sheets and dream of greatness
As society sinks further into stupid . 
Hi , I'm stupid . This is stupid . 
Nice to meet you , stupid . 
The local , though , can never be stupid , 
But I didn't know it then , so I missed all
Of Grays Ferry's breadth and depth , which
I never bothered to investigate . Tense , 
I talked to no locals . I simply assumed
My future was in New York or , at least , 
Downtown Philadelphia . What a farce . 
Had I mingled in Grays Ferry , I might have
Discovered its trade in soiled underwear . 
For 17 years , neighborhood boys would run
To swank Rittenhouse Square , to sell their
Skid - marked Fruit of the Loom to Fast Eddie . 
A UPenn dropout , Eddie also paid these
St . John Neumann kids to piss , shit or throw up
Into his mouth . He kept shit in pizza boxes . 
Though HIV - positive , Ed had butt sex
With some of these teenaged boys . 
Before his trial , Uncle Ed died of AIDS . 
Eddie studied economics , then music , 
Married his high school sweetheart , divorced her . 
The love of his life , though , was excreta . 
Messy yet meticulous , he saved all of
His boys' underwear in 312 trash bags . 
To be an artist , you must not blunt your
Troubling vision , no matter how queer . 
Hedge and you'll be a half - assed punk . 
To be true , you must be willing to die . 
You must , as Gary Snyder says , " kiss
The ass of the devil and eat shit . " 
You must have as much integrity
As Uncle Eddie of Philadelphia .

Avoid adjectives of scale . 
Dandelion broth instead of duck soup . 
Don't even think you've seen a meadow , ever . 
The minor adjustments in our equations
still indicate the universe is insane , 
when it laughs a silk dress comes out its mouth
but we never put it on . Put it on . 
Cry often and while asleep . 
If it's raw , forge it in fire . 
That's not a mountain , that's crumble . 
If it's fire , swallow . 
The heart of a scarecrow isn't geometrical . 
That's not a diamond , it's salt . 
That's not the sky but it's not your fault . 
My dragon may be your neurotoxin . 
Your electrocardiogram may be my fortune cookie . 
Once an angel has made an annunciation , 
it's impossible to tell him he has the wrong address . 
Moonlight has its own befuddlements . 
The rest of us can wear the wolf mask if we want
or look like reflections wandered off . 
Eventually armor , eventually sunk . 
You wanted love and expected what ? 
A parachute ? Morphine ? A gold sticker star ? 
The moment you were born - 
you have to trust others because you weren't there . 
Ditto death . 
The strongest gift I was ever given
was made of twigs . 
It didn't matter which way it broke .

The wind cooled as it crossed the open pond
and drove little waves toward us , 
brisk , purposeful waves
that vanished at our feet , such energy
thwarted by so little elevation . 
The wind was endless , seamless , 
old as the earth . 
Insects came
to regard us with favor . I felt them alight , 
felt their minute footfalls . 
I was a challenge , an Everest ... 
And you , whom I have heard breathe all night , 
sigh through the water of sleep
with vestigial gills ... 
A pair of dragonflies drifted past us , silent , 
while higher up two bullet - shaped jets
dragged their roars behind them
on unbreakable chains . It seemed a pity
we'd given up the sky to them , but I understand so little . 
Perhaps it was necessary . 
All our years together - 
and not just together . Surely by now
we have the same blood type , the same myopia . 
Sometimes I think we're the same sex , 
the one in the middle of man and woman , 
born of both as every child is . 
The waves came to us , one each heartbeat , 
and lay themselves at our feet . 
The swelling goes down . 
The fever cools . 
There , where the Hartleys grew lettuce eighty years ago
bear and beaver , fox and partridge
den and nest and hunt
and are hunted . I wish I had the means
to give all the north back to itself , to let the pines
rise in the hayfield and the lilacs go wild . 
But then where would we live ? 
I wanted that hour with you all winter - 
I thought of it while I worked , 
before I slept and when I woke , 
a time when the tangled would straighten , 
when contrition would become benediction : 
the positive hour , shining like mica . 
At last the wind brought it to us across the pond , 
then took it up again , every last minute .

Stop belonging to me so much , face - head . 
Leave me to my child and my flowers . 
I can't run with you hanging on to me like that . 
It's like having ten dogs on a single lead
and no talent for creatures . 
No hands , no trees . Not my dogs , nobody's . 
Don't you have a place to go , face - head ? 
Deep into the brick basement of another life ? 
To kill some time , I mean . That furnace
light could take a shine to you . 
There are always places , none of them mine . 
And always time - rainbow sugar show
of jimmies falling from ice cream's sky - 
but that stuff's extra , it's never in supply . 
 " Never , " however , acres of it . Violet beans
and sarcasm . Too many flavors of it . 
All those prodigal particles , 
flimsily whimsical miracles , an embarrassment
of glitches . The chorus just more us . 
But nowhere bare and slippery have I
got a prayer . If I had two hands
to rub together I wouldn't waste the air .

Nothing has changed . They have a welcome sign , 
a hill with cows and a white house on top , 
a mall and grocery store where people shop , 
a diner where some people go to dine . 
It is the same no matter where you go , 
and downtown you will find no big surprises . 
Each fall the dew point falls until it rises . 
White snow , green buds , green lawn , red leaves , white snow . 
This is all right . This is their hope . And yet , 
though what you see is never what you get , 
it does feel somehow changed from what it was . 
Is it the people ? Houses ? Fields ? The weather ? 
Is it the streets ? Is it these things together ? 
Nothing here ever changes , till it does .

The Ozarks are where defeated assassins , the unholy , 
and monsters come to retire . 
The proper soil and crooked moonlight grow back
the disemboweled , the decapitated , 
while we collect arrears in child support for our demi - god children . 
The procession of taillights lined deep down the logging trails . 
Along the way , there was a gentleman arguing with his soul
over his suicide . 
I , tongue of snakes . 
Cut up , dipped in powdered sugar , 
scattered to the ants in the deepest corner of Mt . Nebo
as an insult , bind my ghost to the mountain . 
Typhoon collected the few precious scales left of me
from the undertow . 
My southern accent - muscle burned up
from haunting your life / house . 
Now , let daybreak be my head and the year , my whole body . 
An online southern Christian university ordained my smoker's
cough to be a dove . 
My favorite exorcism : 
The demon , steeped in corn bread philosophy , 
does not have enough ass to carry off the jeans he advertises
as he kneels down to the priest and holy water . 
Years ago , as a child , I climbed the levee and made a hole in the air . 
That's where I will rest , but the gate is not wide enough . 
Like my burial site , I am party - size .

Under the long green hair of pepper trees , 
The writers and composers work the street . 
Bach's new score is crumpled in his pocket , 
Dante sways his ass - cheeks to the beat . 
The city is named for the angels , 
And its angels are easy to find . 
They give off a lubricant odor , 
Their eyes are mascara - lined ; 
At night you can see them inserting
Gold - plated diaphragms ; 
For breakfast they gather at poolside
Where screenwriters feed and swim . 
Every day , I go to earn my bread
In the exchange where lies are marketed , 
Hoping my own lies will attract a bid . 
It's Hell , it's Heaven : the amount you earn
Determines if you play the harp or burn . 
Gold in their mountains , 
Oil on their coast ; 
Dreaming in celluloid
Profits them most .

This is an old apartment and therefore the mirrors are huge and ornate . They go with the high ornate ceilings . There's one such mirror in the living room and another in the bedroom . Both have intricately carved borders and a leafy crest on top . In the living room these have been painted over in white , but in the bedroom it's still the original gilt rococo . Both mirrors sit on top of fireplaces and are as big as tombs . I think the descriptive term for them is French Regency Baroque . 
The mirror in the bathroom is pretty big too , and again somewhat ornate . And there are two other mirrors here as well . Not bad for a small , one - bedroom flat . 
The problem is I've never been too fond of mirrors . I rarely look into them , and only then to make sure my hair isn't sticking up , or there's no toothpaste showing , or when I'm fine - trimming the beard , to make sure I've missed no section . Oh , there are exceptional other occasions . Once when I got a red eye on a transatlantic flight , for example , I kept checking on the progress of the red's disappearance . Or when I fell on gravel and got an ugly friction wound on my forehead , I had to first deal with applying the dressing , then keep an eye on how that healing was coming along . Very slowly , as it happened . 
As for gazing into the mirror to see if I look OK enough to go out into the world , or - perish the thought - if I look attractive today , the answer is no way ! Que sera , sera , as the song goes . 
Tiny children love the mirror and it's very pleasant to watch them gazing into it . Dogs don't understand it and bark fiercely at the rival dog that's their reflection . I once gave a woman a full - length mirror as an Xmas present . It wasn't ornate or gilded , and it got smashed soon afterwards , and seven years of bad luck followed . 
But if I want to look at myself in the mirror regularly or for lengthy periods there's plenty opportunity for it in this apartment . I could even stand naked and see everything . And as Monsieur Baudelaire reminds us , according to the immortal principles of 1789 , everyone has equal rights ; therefore I have the right to behold myself with pleasure or distaste . It is between me and my conscience .

I'm amazed we haven't crawled off by now . 
Later we could go back and cross things out , 
that way we wouldn't know where we came from , 
the shapes we asked to be bent into . 
Sinatra'd be okay again , 
mother the same distal approximation , 
the sea still trying to spit it out . 
Sometimes your sleep is different than mine . 
I can't catch up . 
I don't know - there are voices tangled outside . 
Wind wants to make me correct something , 
the refrigerator says something needs to be pushed
further from the sun . 
Out where the sunset ends , they've installed a graveyard
and where it rises , some automatons bash together
mellifluous metal tubing
imparting a festive contusion
to the usual calm disaster of getting out of bed . 
To find out why life has this glass sparkle
at the end of a dark hall . 
To find out why the paper skeleton holds its hands
demurely over its crotch . Did it fall that way ? 
To find out how we fell . 
There is a name to wake into and music to sleep through . 
To find out where the blood comes from on the towels . 
Old friends , I believe your betrayals were inadvertent . 
To find out if my heart is unruined . 
Father , are you out there
or was your corpse accurate ? 
Something happened to me when I was young
that I don't want to happen again
but I remember the first smell of ocean
when the family got out of the car in Jersey
to buy peaches . Spark thrust , spark dust . 
The road was sand .

That quality of the great boxers
to be able to stand there
and take shots , 
gargle with firewater , 
encounter intoxication
at sub - and supra - atomic levels , 
to leave one's sandals at the crater's lip
like Empedocles , and descend , 
not say : I'll be back , 
not think : fifty - fifty , 
to vacate molehills
when dwarves want space to grow , 
to dine alone , 
indivisible , 
and able to renounce your victory - 
a hymn to that man .

What vegetable leviathan
extends beneath the dinner table , 
an unseen , monstrous green that pulls
the chair out from under our faith
in appearances : see a mere tuft
of leaf on the plate like a wing , 
but if it flies away , it undoubtedly
will disturb the continental drift
asleep under the salad plate , 
the hidden world we forget
as we reach for the smaller fork - 
 ( and now , mouth full , don't speak : politely
chew your leaf of firmament
that's torn and tossed up in vinegar here as
we'll be tossed before its vast
root maybe someday or any moment ) .

A psalm of Isaak , accompanied by Jew's harp . 
O God Beloved if obliquely so , 
dimly apprehended in the midst
of this , the fraught obscuring fog
of my insufficiently capacious ken , 
Ostensible Lover of our kind - while
apparently aloof - allow
that I might glimpse once more
Your shadow in the land , avail
for me , a second time , the sense
of dire Presence in the pulsing
hollow near the heart . 
Once more , O Lord , from Your enormity incline
your Face to shine upon Your servant , shy
of immolation , if You will . 
A psalm of Isaak , accompanied by baying hounds . 
O Shaper of varicolored clay and cellulose , O Keeper
of same , O Subtle Tweaker , Agent
of energies both appalling and unobserved , 
do not allow Your servant's limbs to stiffen
or to ossify unduly , do not compel Your servant
to go brittle , neither cramping at the heart , 
nor narrowing his affective sympathies
neither of the flesh nor of the alleged soul . 
Keep me sufficiently limber that I might continue
to enjoy my morning run among the lilies
and the rowdy waterfowl , that I might
delight in this and every evening's intercourse
with the woman you have set beside me . 
Make me to awaken daily with a willingness
to roll out readily , accompanied
by grateful smirk , a giddy joy , 
the idiot's undying expectation , 
despite the evidence . 
A psalm of Isaak , whispered mid the Philistines , beneath the breath . 
Master both invisible and notoriously
slow to act , should You incline to fix
Your generous attentions for the moment
to the narrow scene of this our appointed
tedium , should You - once our kindly
secretary has duly noted which of us
is feigning presence , and which excused , which unexcused , 
You may be entertained to hear how much we find to say
about so little . Among these other mediocrities , 
Your mediocre servant gets a glimpse of how
his slow and meager worship might appear
from where You endlessly attend our dreariness . 
Holy One , forgive , forgo and , if You will , fend off
from this my heart the sense that I am drowning here
amid the motions , the discussions , the several
questions endlessly recast , our paper ballots . 
Isaak's penitential psalm , unaccompanied . 
Again , and yes again , O Ceaseless Tolerator
of our bleaking recurrences , O Forever Forgoing
Foregone ( sans conclusion ) , O Inexhaustible , 
I find my face against the floor , and yet again
my plea escapes from unclean lips , and from a heart
caked in and constricted by its own soiled residue . 
You are forever , and forever blessed , and I aspire
one day to slip my knot and change things up , 
to manage at least one late season sinlessly , 
to bow before you yet one time without chagrin .

A gold box of Latin words
rests in a dazzling , fanciful field
someone raised to life , lavishing
flowers with untraceable roots , histories
too distant to discern , 
upon skin - pale , palm - sized vellum . 
Imagine the one who did this , lost
in dwindling light , a trembling flame
and painstakingly lovely colors : 
blood red , violet , heavy yellow
and fierce , unnatural green . 
Framed like a window
to the artist's heart , the mother
and child , uncomprehending men
offering what they can : the infant
touches a tiny , gold - leaf casket . 
All around him the dark , heraldic blue
of angel winds , night sky , her veil . 
And below him , you can see
the word God printed
over infinitely
careful erasures .

The mountain that remains when the universe is destroyed
is not big and is not small . 
Big and small are
comparative categories , and to what
could the mountain that remains when the universe is destroyed
be compared ? 
Consciousness observes and is appeased . 
The soul scrambles across the screes . 
The soul , 
like the square root of minus 1 , 
is an impossibility that has its uses .

The sun got its new angel wings tee - shirt
smudged with the sandbox's finest
demi - mud . This would render
appearances partial , with a cornball's
incongruence . Sidewalk chalk radioactive
Well , we'll never write that letter to
the lozenges , I mean that shrinking
postcard on the way to Saturn
Will someone please hand me
my martini , so I can
make it through this
The awful ordeal ? 
title Name there
placed in the palm
the of your natural
action tremor
off - center
rendering that floating
green eye , well
it floated
off onto some
bell somewhere
Yesterday's duck
seemed to have three parents : a vulture
a turkey , & a something
a plastic
shapeliness
unaccountably
signaling Dark Star
Winged creatures
suspend shyness
 & we were stabbed
with permission
all over
 & again , the assemblages
of guilt
frozen in dispossession
Did that closet just murmur ? 
 " No mere solar beam can harm the lord of photosynthesis " 
 " No barrier can stop one who dwells between all boundaries " 
 " Welcome back to life , my former foes " 
 " & be tied to the end of your string / flying in the air babes at night " 
9 / 4 / 16
Tompkins Square Park

This is my cap , 
this is my overcoat , 
here is my shave kit
in its linen pouch . 
Some field rations : 
my dish , my tumbler , 
here in the tin - plate
I've scratched my name . 
Scratched it here with this
precious nail
I keep concealed
from coveting eyes . 
In the bread bag I have
a pair of wool socks
and a few things that I
discuss with no one , 
and these form a pillow
for my head at night . 
Some cardboard lies
between me and the ground . 
The pencil's the thing
I love the most : 
By day it writes verses
I make up at night . 
This is my notebook , 
this my rain gear , 
this is my towel , 
this is my twine .

So won a name in this place , 
handing off lath strips to a hammer's
measure , seeing the passing girls' slits
in roils of timber grain . 
Mountains , barley , scaffold , 
dirt . I was sixteen . And hourly
from the hoods of faraway bells
monks emerging like hairless animals . 
I was sixteen . What did I know
of sovereignty , or the new soldiers
by the gate , chinning their shotguns
like violins ? Nights , a tin roof
wind cracked flat ; my sister , 
flushed with child , hushing a child .

And what about this boulder , 
knocked off the moutaintop and
tumbled down a thousand years ago
to lodge against the streambank , 
does it waste itself with worry
about how things are going
to turn out ? Does the current
slicing around it stop itself mid - 
stream because it can't get past
all it's left behind back at
the source or up in the clouds
where its waters first fell
to earth ? And these trees , 
would they double over and
clutch themselves or lash out
furiously if they were to discover
what the other trees really
thought of them ? Would the wind
reascend into the sky forever , 
like an in - drawn breath , 
if it knew it was fated simply
to sweep the earth of windlessness , 
to touch everything and keep
nothing and be beheld by no one ?

Monsignor , I believed Jesus followed me
With his eyes , and when I slept , 
An angel peeled an orange
And waited for me to wake up . 
This was 1962 . I was ten , small as the flame
Of a struck match , my lungs fiery
From hard , wintery play . When I returned home , 
Legs hurting , I placed my hands on the windowsill
And looked out - clouds dirty as towels
And geese I have yet to see again
Darkening the western sky . 
Monsignor , a machine
Had painted on the eyes of my toy soldier , 
Little dots off - center , 
Almost on his cheeks . Such a cheap toy , 
I drowned him over and over in my bath , 
Drowned him until the painted - on eyes flaked off . 
Then a leg fell off - surge of dirty water
Sunk him to the bottom . 
I now at this age place hands on the windowsill , 
My eyes nearly on my cheeks , 
My belly with its rising tide . 
There is no angel with an orange at the edge
Of my bed . There is no soldier
Of God . Only a pane between the inside
And the outside , between this living
And this dying . Monsignor , 
Saintly man of this child's wonderment , 
When will I see the geese again ?

The naked man in the caravan
has peace of mind . He whose covering
belongs to others is uncovered . 
He who has luck will have the winds
blow him his firewood . 
He whose trousers are made of dry grass should not warm himself at
the fire . 
He howled before going mad . 
He led the lion by the ear . 
Like the sparrow , he wanted to imitate
the pigeon's walk but lost his own . 
Walk with sandals till you get good shoes . 
Where the turban moves , there moves
the territory . Men meet
but mountains don't . Always taking out
without giving back , even the mountains
will be broken down . Penny piled on penny
will make a heap . Only the unlucky coin
is left in the purse . As long as a human being lives
he will learn . 
Learn to shave by shaving orphans . 
He who is to be hanged can insult the Pasha . 
In the house of a man who has been hanged
don't talk of rope . 
The small donkey is the one that everybody rides . 
Fish eat fish
and he who has no might dies . 
My belly before my children .

To perform death is something only humans would do
No animal would sit there
With a blank look on its face
Just because the camera is there
No no an animal would look directly in it
Or cover its face , like the overweight
Woman in the picture in the magazine
By the room where I keep my bed
What people don't understand about beauty
Is that after all it is not fleeting
After all it is so gross to be that way
That someone sees among you
After all , to call into question
I painted my lips , my eyes
Only our scholars know that
To perform is to be malleable
To perform in language
Or was it
The large purple insect I let in the room
Or was it the furred face - the hippo or the gorge
That I was the devil in the wood
In my own bones that I knew the face
That I took that face
Was it midnight blue sky
No , were my wings iridescent
Even in these lines
The voice moves you
What sense of exquisite cause
Thought
Moves you past these lines
Into conversation
With the undead
I don't know
That is something
You will have to answer for yourself
I came back to this place to help you
And that I did
Shoot sparks of green and gray
Through time
What skin sack
I put myself in
I mean for what , why , 
Or who
Did I manage to do this for if not you
Lilaced thing
The soft rustle of beetle wings
In air that is warm and gray
And is not strong
But there , is there to carry us past it

A drowned drayman was hoisted on to the slab . 
Someone had jammed a lavender aster
between his teeth . 
As I made the incision up from the chest
with a long knife
under the skin
to cut out tongue and gums , 
I must have nudged it because it slipped
into the brain lying adjacent . 
I packed it into the thoracic cavity
with the excelsior
when he was sewn up . 
Drink your fill in your vase ! 
Rest easy , 
little aster !

Some of us
are chum . 
Some of us
are the come - hither
honeycomb
gleamy in the middle
of the trap's busted smile . 
Though I let myself a little
off this hook , petard
by which I flail , 
and fancy myself more
flattered - 
no ugly worm ! 
Humor me
as hapless nymph , 
straight outta Bullfinch , minding
my own beeswax , 
gamboling , or picking flowers
 ( say daffodils ) , 
doing that unspecified stuff
nymphs do
with their hours , 
until spied by a layabout youth , 
or rapey God
who leaps unerring , staglike , 
quicker than smoke , to the wrong idea . 
Or maybe
the right ? 
For didn't I supply
the tippy box , too ? 
Notch the stick on which
to prop it ? 
Didn't I fumble the clove hitch
for the rope ? 
Leave the trip lying obvious
in the tall , buggy grass ? 
Ever it was . 
Duh . 
Be the mat , 
and the left foot finds you welcome . 
Though there's always a subject , a him
or herself . But to name it
calls it down , like Betelgeuse , 
or the IRS . 
It must be swell
to have both deed and
the entitlement , for leaners who hold our lien , 
consumers who consume like
red tide ripping through a coastal lake ? 
Who find themselves so very well
when gazing in that kiddie pool , or any
skinny inch of water . 
That guy , remember ? How tell this tale
without him ? A story
so hoary , his name's Pre - Greek . 
What brought Narcissus down ? 
A spotty case
of the disdains , I think , 
a one - man performance
where the actor hates his audience .

A snail sank - grand in puss and rime , on three coils ( equals
one tea - wheel ) white . 
The wheel brings the bill , the bill - bald . 
Everyone goes in for the table , 
the tablecloth is of water . One says huh - one morning high on a grape I dropped off - a dunce - 
and exacted my height , and rightly so : it is a height I won't have made alone . 
It is a height erring on all sides . 
The bride slip'n slides on her back to us - then on her head ( a ball - point pen ) , quicksand in her hair . 
A man beside her , his mouth is like a dark arch for her . My mouth is death to you ! 
In this new rhythm how can I say , how can I thank you , for I feel a blessing running through my tale now , it shines - 
intestines - that I will can .

I remember she rented a room on the second floor from Jenny Holtzerman , an Austrian widow . The two women lived on Girard Avenue South , in Kenwood , an elegant suburb of Minneapolis . Any promise of husbands had disappeared long ago . From the kitchen I often remember the jelly smell of a linzer torte . I was in high school and often I eavesdropped . Once , quietly , she said to my mother , " I never knew the love of a man . " She had mentioned having a husband , but during the war they were separated in the chaos of Budapest , and later she lost track of him . Once she showed me her room : the walls were bare with cracks . Her daybed was narrow , barely slept - in . Her room resembled hundreds of scant little rooms around the world , the way it accepted blue and purple - violet detail - on her bureau , no family photographs , instead , playbills autographed by cast members , a calendar tattered , crossed , marked , no jewelry , some coins . Her window sashes warped , her wires shorted and the paint around her doorframe kept chipping off - " like in The Cherry Orchard , " she said , " by Chekhov . " She told a joke in Hungarian to Hannah Tamasek and even I , not knowing a word , laughed . She bowed gently in a mannerism distinctly Viennese and spoke on occasion of the Austro - Hungarian Empire . She loved the Guthrie Theater , where curtains rose on miniature worlds , preferring memorized dialogue and costumes to something truer . Five feet tall in orthopedic shoes , she limped . Time has a way of rearranging things and I could have most details wrong now , but there was this : during the war , she met a man , whom she gave money to , she did not know the man well , but had trusted him to smuggle her father across the border , the man pocketed the money , bought chocolates for his mistress from Belgium , and placed Margaret's father on a train to Auschwitz . So it makes sense to me now that simple decisions baffled Margaret . It makes sense to me now that when news reached us of Primo Levi's suicide , Margaret did not blink . It makes sense to me now that when Dr . Sikorski spoke of fighting in the Warsaw sewers , Margaret said , " I do not believe in God . " Those who saw what they saw grow fewer . Margaret has been dead a long time now . But perhaps you will understand why I chose her , why I have smudged the slow waltz of her smile and added only a few modest blue strokes - here and here . As you leave Margaret behind and turn the page , listen as the page falls back and your hand gently buries her . This is what the past sounds like .

In the warmth of night I put feet to my plan : waited
for my brothers to sleep . They'd spent the day
sharpening their hooks , repairing the great net , 
filling gourds with fresh water . They'd bundled
taro wrapped in leaves sitting below the cross seats . 
The bundles and the net would cover me , 
especially if I said the chant to slow my movement
and my breathing . The moon became brighter
like a big fish eye as the chant hooked me . 
I was holding my grandmother's hook so tightly
a little cut welled red between my closed knuckles . 
 " Goodmorning , brothers , " I called and they cussed
and moaned until the next chant took us a further hundred
miles and then another until my chanting made them gasp
as we settled on a patch of ocean black with fish . 
They forgave me , not that it matters . I took the bloody hook
and said my business to the ocean . It worked . 
The fish rose and our descent was secured .

Miss Scarlett , effen we kain git de doctah
w'en Miss Melly's time come , doan you bodder
Ah kin manage . Ah knows all 'bout birthin . 
Ain' mah ma a midwife ? Ain' she raise me
ter be a midwife , too ? Jes' you leave it
ter me . She warn't dar . Well'm , Dey Cookie say
Miss Meade done got wud early dis mawnin'
dat young Mist' Phil done been shot an' Miss Meade
she tuck de cah'ige an' Ole Talbot an'
Besty an' dey done gone ter fotch him home . 
Cookie say he bad hurt an' Miss Meade ain'
gwin ter be studyin' 'bout comin' up
hyah . Dey ain' dar , Miss Scarlett . Ah drapped in
ter pass time of de day wid Mammy on
mah way home . 
Dey's doen gone . House all locked up . 
Spec dey's at de horsepittle . 
Miss Elsing ober at de horsepittle . 
Dey Cookie 'lows a whole lot of wounded
sojers come in on de early train . Cookie fixin'
soup ter tek over dar . She say - Yas'm
Gawdlmighty , Miss Scarlett ! De Yankees
ain' at Tara , s dey ? Gawdlmighty , 
Miss Scarlett ! Whut'll dey do ter Maw ? 
Dey's fightin' at Jonesboro , Miss Scarlett ! 
Dey say our gempumus is gittin' beat . 
Oh , Gawd , Miss Scarlett ! Whut'll happen ter
Maw an' Poke ? Oh , Gawd , Miss Scarlett ! Whut'll happen
ter us effen de Yankees gits hyah ? Oh , 
Gawd - Ah ain' nebber seed him , Miss Scarlett . 
No'm , he ain' at de horsepittle . 
Miss Merriwether
an' Miss Elsing ain' dar needer . 
A man he tole me de doctah down
by de car shed
wid the wounded
sojers jes' come in frum Jonesboro , but
Miss Scarlett , Ah wuz sceered ter go down dar ter
de shed - dey's folkses dyin' down dar . Ah's
sceered of daid folkses - Miss Scarlett , fo' Gawd , Ah
couldn' sceercely git one of dem ter read
yo' note . Dey wukin' in de horsepittle
lak dey all done gone crazy . One doctah
he say ter me , " Damn yo' hide ! Doan you come
roun' hyah bodderi' me 'bout babies w'en
we got a mess of men dyin'
hyah . Git some woman ter he'p you . " An' den
Ah went aroun' an' about an' ask fer news
lak you done tole me an' dey all say " fightin'
at Jonesboro " an' Ah - 
Is her time nigh , Miss Scarlett ? 
Is de doctah come ? 
Gawd , Miss Scarlett ! Miss Melly bad off ! 
Fo' Gawd , Miss Scarlett - 
Fo' Gawd , Miss Scarlett ! 
We's got ter have a doctah . 
Ah - Ah - 
Miss Scarlett , 
Ah doan know nutin' 'bout bringin' babies .

Because this is a monsoon poem
expect to find the words jasmine , 
palmyra , Kuruntokai , red ; mangoes
in reference to trees or breasts ; paddy
fields , peacocks , Kurinji flowers , 
flutes ; lotus buds guarding love's
furtive routes . Expect to hear a lot
about erotic consummation inferred
by laburnum gyrations and bamboo
syncopations . Listen to the racket
of wide - mouthed frogs and bent - 
legged prawns going about their
business of mating while rain falls
and falls on tiled roofs and verandas , 
courtyards , pagodas . Because such
a big part of you seeks to understand
this kind of rain - so unlike your cold
rain , austere rain , get - me - the - hell - 
out - of - here rain . Rain that can't fathom
how to liberate camphor from the vaults
of the earth . Let me tell you how little
is written of mud , how it sneaks up
like a sleek - gilled vandal to catch hold
of your ankles . Or about the restorative
properties of mosquito blood , dappled
and fried against the wires of a bug - zapping
paddle . So much of monsoon is to do
with being overcome - not from longing
as you might think , but from the sky's
steady bludgeoning , until every leaf
on every unremembered tree gleams
in the abyss of postcoital bliss . 
Come . Now sip on your masala tea , 
put your lips to the sweet , spicy skin
of it . There's more to see - notice
the dogs who've been fucking on the beach , 
locked in embrace like an elongated Anubis , 
the crabs scavenging the flesh of a dopey - 
eyed ponyfish , the entire delirious coast
with its philtra of beach and saturnine
clouds arched backwards in disbelief . 
And the mayflies who swarm in November
with all their ephemeral grandeur to die
in millions at the behest of light , the geckos
stationed on living room walls , cramming
fistfuls of wings in their maws . Notice
how hardly anyone mentions the word
death , even though the fridge leaks
and the sheets have been damp for weeks . 
And in this helter - skelter multitude
of gray - greenness , notice how even the rain
begins to feel fatigued . The roads and sewers
have nowhere to go , and like old - fashioned pursuers
they wander and spill their babbling hearts
to electrical poles and creatures with ears . 
And what happens later , you might ask , 
after we've moved to a place of shelter , 
when the cracks in the earth have reappeared ? 
We dream of wet , of course , of being submerged
in millet stalks , of webbed toes and stalled
clocks and eels in the mouth of a heron . 
We forget how unforgivably those old poems
led us to believe that men were mountains , 
that the beautiful could never remain
heartbroken , that when the rains arrive
we should be delighted to be taken
in drowning , in devotion .

Last night , when the moon
slipped into my attic room
as an oblong of light , 
I sensed she'd come to commiserate . 
It was August . She traveled
with a small valise
of darkness , and the first few stars
returning to the northern sky , 
and my room , it seemed , 
had missed her . She pretended
an interest in the bookcase
while other objects
stirred , as in a rock pool , 
with unexpected life : 
strings of beads in their green bowl gleamed , 
the paper - crowded desk ; 
the books , too , appeared inclined
to open and confess . 
Being sure the moon
harbored some intention , 
I waited ; watched for an age
her cool gaze shift
first toward a flower sketch
pinned on the far wall
then glide down to recline
along the pinewood floor , 
before I'd had enough . Moon , 
I said , We're both scarred now . 
Are they quite beyond you , 
the simple words of love ? Say them . 
You are not my mother ; 
with my mother , I waited unto death .

A carpet of light , the
ocean alive < half a moon
muting the stars . 
I tell myself
despair is just
a bad attitude : Get up , 
I say . Look - 
and the shimmer
spends its name
in my head . 
 _ _ _ _ _ 
These days midlife
holds the jagged edge : 
my nephew in prison , 
a prisoner > friends insane
with work or sick
of trying to be loved , 
my parents handing over their lives
like evidence : my good mother , 
her mind a trail of crumbs
in a woods flocked with birds . 
 - / - 
To raise a child break it
like a wild horse - 
bend the will : get up , 
get dressed . 
I remember Emlen School
staring me down , my lunch box , 
September : 
the spiked fence freshly painted . 
Then , the goodbye from my mother
who'd fought my hard hair , 
lipstick like mist on my cheek . 
 - / - 
That instant when eyes meet
and slide away - even love
blinks , looks off
like a stranger . 
With : Who are you
with ? 
 - / - 
I suspect everything . 
Outside the air moves
a giant bird I cannot see . 
Still laced in this
brown body : my aging heart - 
a - loom a - loomdoom - 
still minds my thoughts , 
but rolls his eyes . 
 _ _ _ _ _ 
To see >< to be seen : the life
of the visible . Don't be shy . 
Glances pick my face . 
Once , I was a sperm and an egg , 
but they didn't see me . 
 - / - 
Too small to walk
alone : I held
my father's index
finger . Philadelphia police
caped in their black
jackets - big badges almost
hungry - looking at us . 
 - / - 
In a mall : say a food court
on Saturday or a stadium
just before the game . 
There's this drone , this
steady , muttering thrum
punctured by
packages - plastic this , 
paper that - torn and torn . 
 " It's hard not to be hungry . " 
 - / - 
Time for bed : my
mother reading The
Three Little Pigs , doing
all the voices . Remember
the pictures - those piggy
pants and shirts ? 
 - / - 
When you see me , 
what is that
image in the eye ? 
Solid ghosts , we are pictured
here - in the lit world . 
Visible : we want to be seen : skin , 
fancy legs shoes and hats . 
To want > to be seen and
wanted . Nice lips with a moist
sheen . Eyes , like mouths . 
 _ _ _ _ _ 
What tortures , what tortures
me is the question : what
are other people thinking ? 
I keep watch - a vast horde
of Nikes has landed , running
sea to shining sea . 
 - / - 
In America skin was
where you belonged , a who
you were with , a reason
someone might : how - at the
parties of hands unknown - 
astonishing deaths
could meet you . 
 - / - 
In Joy's arms , I believed
in perfect company , in the silk
of Her mouth - I believed : 
my body off
the clock , my spine
all for touch . 
 _ _ _ _ _ 
Six years old , I sang
like a chickadee . My father
slapped me for handing him
the scissors
wrong . What did I know ? 
What did I know ? 
 - / - 
Reckless eyeballs . 
Three centuries track me , 
their dumb dogs slobbering
on my scent : Myself runs
into my other self : Over here ! 
my self whispers - Freedom
over here ! 
 - / - 
Suppose nobody knows
what's
inside you . 
But you , yourself , 
find it pretty clear : 
anxiety adding up , leveling off , 
doubling > some comfort in people
you think you
understand / frustration , 
fatigue , a secret . 
One worn constellation
marking the lusciousness of sex . 
 - / - 
What's your faith ? Which skin
do you believe ? The unseen
stays with us : 
the air
rubbing your lungs
right now - 
nations of germs
feuding over your hands . 
 - / - 
Savory sweet salt of sweat in summer , 
a taste of almonds , some buttery bread . 
The loins , a house of hunger , personal
but not personal : the way moonlight calls
for you and not for you . What
I want > I guess < I want . 
Fingernails grow . My
belly grumbles . My blood runs
up a long hill . 
 _ _ _ _ _ 
Among the brothaz , a certain
grip in the eyes . A sense
of something
swallowed not chewed - 
as if they'd been made
a story and were dying
to untell themselves : 
profiles - prisons , 
the sports inside The Sport . 
Outside , the wolf
with a
huff and a puff . 
 - / - 
Culture : a kind of knife : 
cuts one way opens
your brain to a certain
breed of light shaves
consciousness to its
purpose , its cross : the nail
thru your hand >< your
other hand holding
the hammer . 
 - / - 
Once , I asked my father
if he knew everything . 
I was hopeful , seven - 
a corn muffin
where my head shoulda been . 
I saw him shave and after , 
little dabs of Kleenex on the nicks . 
 - / - 
I only see
The Game in pieces - 
the rules inside me
like bad wiring < like a shadow
government < like dark
matter in a sky
otherwise Mardi Grased
with stars . Rise up , 
somebody somebody . 
 - / - 
 ( Insert your life here . ) 
 - / - 
Did you mean to be this way ? 
Did you mean to become
something you didn't mean ? 
You didn' become
something you didn'
mean did you ? 
 - / - 
Image follows image , quack follows
quack - a line of lonely ducks . What
is wrong is well
organized : see all the schedules
with their Coors Lights and comfy socks . 
 _ _ _ _ _ 
How do I look ? With whom >< am I with ? 
Better worlds build hives
inside us . Last words
trapped like wasps in our mouths . 
 - / - 
So monogamy never made
sense to me , nor most of what
was called growing up . 
The whole
haunted house
of race and religion of sex , 
money , possession . 
Am I rented or owned ? 
How many lives turned
on the spit ? How many
hours _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
and _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ? 
 - / - 
I was nine , integrating Anna
Blakiston Day School : fourth grade , 
mixing it up . Visible , 
with my new face . 
Whenever my mother
had to go see the teachers , 
she'd say , 
 " Don't send me into battle
with a butter knife . " 
 - / - 
Connect this to that , this
to that : word by word , a
sentence
scavenges the alleys
like a lost pet - fur matted , 
leg cut : the hunger , 
a sort of riddle > his noise
some sort of answer . 
 _ _ _ _ _ 
What skinny faith you have - 
and such big teeth : all
the better . I mean to step out
of history for just a minute , 
to feel my blood float
above the say - so . Memory , 
a jar of flies . Spin off the lid . 
I forget what you know . What
did you ever know ? 
 - / - 
To speak : score the alphabet - 
make the shape of what
cannot be seen . Tear it open
like a child with a new bag
of something / stand in the traffic
goading your throat until the song
sharpens in your mouth - 
the solo : one nick
chasing another . 
 - / - 
I think I'm
starting to know
Everything < O , tongue ! 
O , summer ! O , bold , 
bare legs of women
upon which my soul beads
like sweat > O , rosemary rolls
and marmalade ! 
Hard - bodied beetles
with your six - legged sashay ! 
O , 
funky beats and bitter
guitars < O , children
taller and taller no
matter
what ! 
O , moonlit sea ! O , Hershey bars ! 
O , bizness besuited
pigeons of death : How much
does it cost ? O , moment
flung from the last - last
to the next - next . 
 _ _ _ _ _ 
One dandelion head gone to seed , 
half - flung on the wind . 
I've sold a lot of myself already : 
already alotta my selves been sold . 
I have this feeling
every day - something I know
that can't
be words . This life
stuffs my eyes . 
These people nearby - syllables
like pheasants flushed
from their mouths . 
I'm back on my mother's lap
waving my small arms .

In the end she just wanted the house
and a horse not much more what
if he didn't own the house or worse
not even a horse how do we
separate the things from a man the man from
the things is a man still the same
without his reins here it rains every fifteen
minutes it would be foolish to
marry a man without an umbrella did
Cinderella really love the prince or
just the prints on the curtains in the
ballroom once I went window - 
shopping but I didn't want a window when
do you know it's time to get a new
man one who can win more things at the
fair I already have four stuffed
pandas from the fair I won fair and square
is it time to be less square to wear
something more revealing in North and
South she does the dealing gives him
the money in the end but she falls in love
with him when he has the money when
he is still running away if the water is
running in the other room is it wrong
for me to not want to chase it because it owns
nothing else when I wave to a man I
love what happens when another man with
a lot more bags waves back

I am not a woman , I
am a man . Made in His image . 
I keep the house , a gray Cape Cod , 
and broom it well . I wear a skirt to be
comfortable . I build the fire . 
When my husband comes home I don't pester Him with questions . 
He knows where to find His slippers and His pipe . 
Out our kitchen back door I see the prophets freight - hopping
the long bad Western in ancient English
that no one need read to know . Everyone speaks his part : 
the women keep their heads down
while the men are losing theirs . Children ? 
How often I've prayed for a child , which means
slipping meaning looks to my husband as we rock
together on the porch of an evening , drinking lemonade
and playing Scrabble . If He lets me win
it's a sign . I haven't won yet . 
But the neighbor children come and go
and take the pies cooling on the windowsill
without thanks . Sometimes terrible things
happen to them - some man
spills the blood
cradled so carefully in every hand . I accept
no blame . The pies were there to leave alone , 
or not . God says nothing
but taps out His pipe , stands , with a hand
to ease His aching back . Time for bed . 
Our bed is a rolling ocean that I tread alone
just a head bobbing above the ash - colored waves
while the moon waits for me and everything
to drown , to know again the peace
the moon knows , the silence interrupted by astronauts , 
little green men , the spectacle a mother
can't help but make of herself . God
comes to bed
and I clutch a spar , a barrel , an oar , 
and ride out the night with it . When He fucks me
still He doesn't speak , for speech is creation
but I rock with him , I roll inside
what cannot be comprehended , in force . I forget
that I'm a man , I forget the wild sea , I let slip
my grasp and the colors I have
that cover me . Once I dreamed
of the morning : we left the house together
in identical sober suits , we stood in the street
and beheld the sad little town , wreathed in black crepe
for its children . As though the morning
could show me His face . He coughed . 
And when I awoke
in our ordinary bed , streaked by sun through leaded windows , I held
my baby to my breast and watched the roof beam
and whispered to her , It's all right , 
we are safe only and always
from our dreams .

It's not the sharks
Sliding mere inches from his upturned face
Through warps of water where the tunnel arcs
Transparent overhead , 
Their lipless jaws clamped shut , extruding teeth , 
Their eyes that stare at nothing , like the dead , 
Staring at him ; it's not the eerie grace
Of rays he stood beneath , 
Gaping at their entranced slow - motion chase
That is unending ; 
It's not the ultra - auditory hum
Of ET cuttlefish superintending
The iridescent craft
Of their lit selves , as messages were sent , 
Turning the sight of him they photographed
To code : it is not this that left him dumb
With schoolboy wonderment
Those hours he wandered the aquarium . 
It is that room , 
That room of Murray River they had walled
In glass and , deep within the shifting gloom
And subtle drifts of sky
That filtered down , it seemed , from the real day
Of trees and bird light many fathoms high , 
The giant Murray cod that was installed
In stillness to delay
All that would pass . The boy stood there enthralled . 
Out in the day
Again , he saw the famous streets expound
Their theories about speed , the cars obey , 
Racing to catch the sun , 
The loud fast - forward crowds , and thought it odd
That in the multitudes not everyone
Should understand as he did the profound
Profession of the cod , 
That held time , motionless , unknown to sound . 
In bed at night , 
Are his eyes open or is this a dream ? 
The room is all dark water , ghosted light , 
And midway to the ceiling
The great fish with its working fins and gills
Suspended , while before it glide the reeling
And see - through scenes of day , faintly agleam , 
Until their passage stills
And merges with the deep unmoving stream .

Big Jack and his walking stick
live on the ridge . Navajo
orphan kids dance for him , 
bobcat urine's in the weeds , 
the shotgun barrel's up his sleeve , 
a Persian coin is on the wind . 
The Chinese Mountains smell the moon
and arch their backs . I tell him , Jack , 
there's times I wish I was living in
canvas France , the old west , 
a picture book , the Sea of
Tranquility , or even in
the den near the hot spring . 
He says , kid , to hell with
phantom limbs ; spring is a verb , 
a wish is a wash , a walking stick
is a gottdam wing .

Even if you love the racket of ascension , 
you must know how the power leaves you . 
And at this pitch who has time for meditation ? 
the sea walled in by buildings . I do miss
the quiet , don't you ? When I said , " Fuck the deer
antlered and hithered in fur , " it was because
I had seen the faces of presidents balled into a fist . 
If I were in charge , I would know how to fix
the world : free health care or free physicals , 
at least , and an abiding love for the abstract . 
When I said , " All of history is saved for us , " 
it was because I scorned the emancipated sky . 
Does the anthem choke you up ? When I asked
God if anyone born to slaves would die
a slave , He said : " Sure as a rock descending
a hillside . " That's why I'm not a Christian .

I said Folk was dressed in Blues but hairier and hemped . 
After " We acoustic banjo disciples ! " Jebediah said , " When
and whereforth shall the bucolic blacks with good tempers
come to see us pluck as Elizabeth Cotton intended ? " 
We stole my Uncle Windchime's minivan , penned a simple
ballad about the drag of lovelessness and drove the end
of the chitlin' circuit to a joint skinny as a walk - in temple
where our new folk was not that new , but strengthened
by our twelve bar conviction . A month later , in pulled
a parade of well meaning alabaster post adolescents . 
We noticed the sand - tanned and braless ones piled
in the ladder - backed front row with their boyfriends
first because beneath our twangor slept what I'll call
a hunger for the outlawable . One night J asked me when
sisters like Chapman would arrive . I shook my chin wool
then , and placed my hand over the guitar string's wind - 
ow til it stilled . " When the moon's black , " I said . " Be faithful . "

As sweetness flows through these new days , 
the woods leaf out , and songbirds phrase
in neumes of roosted melody
incipits to a new song . 
Then love should find lubricity
and quicken , having slept so long . 
The bloodroot blossoms , well and good , 
but I receive no word that would
set my troubled heart at ease , 
nor could we turn our faces toward
the sun , and open by degrees , 
unless we reach a clear accord . 
And so our love goes , night and day : 
it's like the thorny hawthorn spray
that whips about in a bitter wind
from dusk to dawn , shellacked with sleet , 
until the sun's first rays ascend
through leaves and branches , spreading heat . 
I have in mind one April morning
when she relented without warning , 
relenting from her cold rebuff
in laughter , peals of happiness . 
Sweet Christ , let me live long enough
to get my hands beneath her dress ! 
I hate the elevated talk
that disregards both root and stalk
and sets insipid pride above
vicissitudes of lust and strife . 
Let others claim a higher love : 
we've got the bread , we've got the knife .

It's all right
Unless you're either lonely or under attack . 
That strange effortful
Repositioning of yourself . Laundry , shopping , 
Hours , the telephone - unless misinformed - 
Only ever ringing for you , if it ever does . 
The night - yours to decide , 
Among drink , or books , or lying there . 
On your back , or curled up . 
An embarrassment of poverty .

No more lines on the luminescence of light , of whatever variation . 
No more elegies of youth or age , no polyglottal ventriloquism . 
No more songs of raw emotion , forever overcooked . 
No more the wisdom of banality , which should stay overlooked . 
No more verbs of embroidery . 
No more unintentional phallacy . 
No more metaphor , no more simile . Let the thing be , concretely . 
No more politics put politically : let the thing be concretely . 
No more conditional set conditionally - let the thing be already . 
No more children pimped out to prove some pouting mortality . 
No more death without dying - immediately . 
No more poet - subject speaking into the poem - mirror , watching the mouth move , fixing the thinning hair . 
No more superiority of the interiority of that unnatural trinity - 
you , me , we - our teeth touch only our tongues . 
No more Gobstoppers : an epic isn't an epic for its fingerprints . 
No more reversals of grammar if as emphasis . 
No more nature less natural ; no more impiety on bended knee . 
No more jeu de mot , no more mot juste . 
No more retinal poetry .

It's midnight now and sounds like midnight then , 
The words like distant stars that faintly grace
The all - pervading dark of space , 
But not meant for the world of men . 
It's not what we forget
But what was never known we most regret
Discovery of . Checking one last cassette
Among my old unlabelled discards , few
Of which reward the playing , I find you . 
Some years after her death , but years ago , 
Hearing Gwen's voice recite " Suburban Sonnet , " 
At first we could not focus on it , 
So jolted that the radio
Should casually exhume
From our shared memory the woman whom
We knew and make her present in the room , 
As though in flesh , surprised to find that she
Had earned this further immortality . 
Who ever thought they would not hear the dead ? 
Who ever thought that they could quarantine
Those who are not , who once had been ? 
At that old station on North Head
Inmates still tread the boards , 
Or something does ; equipment there records
The voices in the dormitories and wards , 
Although it's years abandoned . Undeleted , 
What happened is embedded and repeated , 
Or so they say . And that would not faze you
Who always claimed events could not escape
Their scenes , recorded as on tape
In matter and played back anew
To anyone attuned
To that stored energy , that psychic wound . 
You said you heard the presence which oppugned
Your trespass on its lasting sole occasion
In your lost house . I scarcely need persuasion , 
So simple is this case . Here in the dark
I listen , tensing in distress , to each
Uncertain fragment of your speech , 
Each desolate , half - drunk remark
You uttered unaware
That this cassette was running and would share
Far in the useless future your despair
With one who can do nothing but avow
You spoke from midnight , and it's midnight now .

No shards
where one is bound to no place in the first place
all shards
we were clear on that from the beginning
Absence is always sudden to hear your voice
once more more
echo than shrapnel qualia of the forbidden
transforms itself into wounds regenerates
a hydra or lizard tail
touch me
I'm alive again
there isn't enough time or proximity
for your essence or mine to vanish
we'll remain
fire and ice who turn to glass
that doesn't shatter
mercury
if it shatters

What I adore is not horses , with their modern
domestic life span of 25 years . What I adore
is a bug that lives only one day , especially if
it's a terrible day , a day of train derailment or
chemical lake or cop admits to cover - up , a day
when no one thinks of anything else , least of all
that bug . I know how it feels , born as I've been
into these rotting times , as into sin . Everybody's
busy , so distraught they forget to kill me , 
and even that won't keep me alive . I share
my home not with horses , but with a little dog
who sees poorly at dusk and menaces stumps , 
makes her muscle known to every statue . 
I wish she could have a single day of language , 
so that I might reassure her don't be afraid - 
our whole world is dead and so can do you no harm .

If Socrates drank his portion of hemlock willingly , 
if the Appalachians have endured unending ages of erosion , 
if the wind can learn to read our minds
and moonlight moonlight as a master pickpocket , 
surely we can contend with contentment as our commission . 
Deer in a stubble field , small birds dreaming
unimaginable dreams in hollow trees , 
even the icicles , darling , even the icicles shame us
with their stoicism , their radiant resolve . 
Listen to me now : think of something you love
but not too dearly , so the night will steal from us
only what we can afford to lose .

We boys , the neighborhood's barefoot
We boys , the neighborhood's naked
We boys of stomachs bloated from eating mud
We boys of teeth porous from eating dates and pumpkin rind
We boys will line up from Hassan al - Basri's mausoleum to the Ashar River's source
to meet you in the morning waving green palm fronds
We will cry out : Long Live
We will cry out : Live to Eternity
And we will hear the music of Scottish bagpipes , gladly
Sometimes we will laugh at an Indian soldier's beard
but fear will merge with our laughs , and dispute them
We cry out : Long Live
We cry out : Live to Eternity
and reach our hands toward you : Give us bread
We the hungry , starving since our birth in this village
Give us meat , chewing gum , cans , and fish
Give us , so no mother expels her child
so that we do not eat mud and sleep
We boys , the neighborhood's barefoot
do not know from where you had come
or why you had come
or why we cry out : Long Live
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . 
And now we ask : will you stay long ? 
And will we go on reaching our hands toward you ? 
London , December 3 , 2002

Although a tide turns in the trees
the moon doesn't turn the leaves , 
though chimneys smoke and blue concedes
to bluer home - time dark . 
Though restless leaves submerge the park
in yellow shallows , ankle - deep , 
and through each tree the moon shows , halved
or quartered or complete , 
the moon's no fruit and has no seed , 
and turns no tide of leaves on paths
that still persist but do not lead
where they did before dark . 
Although the moonstruck pond stares hard
the moon looks elsewhere . Manholes breathe . 
Each mind's a different , distant world
this same moon will not leave .

When I read about the garden
designed to bloom only white flowers , 
I think about the Spanish friar who saw one
of my grandmothers , two hundred years
removed , and fucked her . If you look
at the word colony far enough , you see it
traveling back to the Latin
of inhabit , till , and cultivate . Words
that would have meant something
to the friar , walking among the village girls
as though in a field of flowers , knowing
that fucking was one way of having
a foreign policy . As I write this , there's snow
falling , which means that every
angry thought is as short - lived as a match . 
The night is its own white garden : 
snow on the fence , snow on the tree
stump , snow on the azalea bushes , 
their leaves hanging down like green
bats from the branches . I know it's not fair
to see qualities of injustice in the aesthetics
of a garden , but somewhere between
what the eye sees and what the mind thinks
is the world , landscapes mangled
into sentences , one color read into rage . 
When the neighbors complained
the roots of our cypress were buckling
their lot , my landlord cut the tree down . 
I didn't know a living thing three stories high
could be so silent , until it was gone . 
Suddenly that sky . Suddenly all the light
in the windows , as though every sheet
of glass was having a migraine . 
When I think about that grandmother
whose name I don't even know , I think of
what it would mean to make a garden
that blooms black : peonies and gladiolas
of deepest purple , tulips like ravens . 
Or a garden that doesn't bloom at all : rocks
poised on clean gravel . When the snow stops , 
I walk to see the quiet that has colonized
everything . The main street is asleep , except
for the bus that goes by , bright as a cruise ship . 
There are sheet cakes of snow on top
of cars . In front of houses , each lawn
is as clean as paper , except where the first cat
or raccoon has walked across , each track
like a barbed - wire sash on a white gown .

Stone by stone , body by body in the grass : 
For this we trade our lone compass , 
Become swans instead , adrift in glaze - 
Light , kilned in the arms of each other
Into vessel - vassal new . Or shrew , 
As the case may be . What would you do ? 
Listen to the footsteps in the thistles . 
Put the kettle on for tea , and whisper it to me .

Lame again , I limp home along Lawn Terrace
with a flowering sun star in a paper wrap
then back to the village with a lame cat
twisting and woeful in her cage . 
Bread these days isn't baked to last : 
how sad those posh loaves thudding off
in pine breadbins all around the Heath : 
soulless latterday pets , frisky for a day
or two , then binned or thrown to foxes , 
loaves just an inch of gloom below
the caged birds you notice in corners
of those same mansions when you seek
the past , dinking their mirrors , dipping
once in a while for a sip of milk .

Pure gaze , you are lightning beyond the last trees
and you are the last trees'
past , branching
green lightning
of terminal brain branches
numened densely with summer's
hunter color , as night comes on , 
the ocean they conceal
gone berserk , wind still rising . 
Pure seeing , dual vortex doors
to the blue fire where
sex is burned away , and all
is as it was and I am being offered
in your eyes , as in cupped hands , 
the water of to never thirst again . 
Again I turn away , 
and the future comes , all at once
towering around me
on every side , and I am lost . 
Pure looking , past pain
 ( this is promised ) : 
we must have wed on poverty's most hair - raising day
delighting , flashing risk , risk
unfailingly lighting the way , 
anything possible
in that dissolving of seam
between minds , 
no more golden time - 
each step I took
the right step , words
came to me finally and finding the place
you had set for them , 
once again
wrote themselves down . 
Till true word's anvil ring , and
solid tap of winged blind cane come , 
I wish you
all the aloneness you hunger for . 
That big kitchen table where you sit laughing
with friends , I see it happening . 
And I wish that I could not be
so much with you
when I'm suddenly not ; that
inwardly you might switch
time , to sleep
and winter while you went about
your life , until you woke up
well , 
our conversation resumed . 
Ceaseless blue lightning , this
love passing through me : 
I know somehow it will go on
reaching you , reaching you
instantly
when I'm not in the way ; 
when it is no longer deflected
by all the dark bents , all
I tried to overcome but I could not - 
so much light pulled off course
as it passed within reach , so much
lost , lost in me , 
but no more . 
October 2 , 1999 - October 2 , 2010

rocket water
eglantine
wooden moon on the roof
signs of night & 
the red motorbike's
bleeding muscle
fleshed stalk dripping
and overgrowing our evening
it too
a sign of darkness
a leek's fat body
the red motorbike
our night fire
ravishment of chrome
steel
our red motorbike glazed
with henna and betel it squirts
salmon juice between the dark
of our thighs it sprouts
and shouts at the bar
it wears a portion of
evening in its eye
it sloughs off sleep like
the bushes drop resin & 
berries
our rags dip purring in
even redder roar
our muscles softly skip sweet
sweat flickers we polish
carefully & 
assiduously our eyes are perched
on steel antennae surely there is
nothing redder than our motorbike
steed
we will live on it
our red tent
dig our claws into
its heart cherries meat it
shouts out
spittle rip
the juice instructs
the eyes
in the language of iron
the red night squats
pressed against our motorbike
we ride hunting little girls
in the wooden sky

A current like a noise machine through sleep . 
Blue lichen fields . Mossed boulders . Waking up
to ice cubes cracking in a plastic cup
and voices ( " awesome for the Hong Kong branch
 ... well , most of all we miss our daughter ... " ) I still
see it : the climb up slate as runnels spill
from some bare misted summit like a source . 
Whatever sense this dream might make
to others . And whatever when they wake
they also have been dreaming . Rivers of faces
down hallways , merging , as desires mesh
and fissure . Cash for clothes or arms or flesh . 
And if there is no towering sublime
where all comes clear to all , no final climb
through cloud , like some old Bible illustration : 
how could that ever stop the current flowing
out of the glass at jfk : skin glowing
plumb and peach as we walk inside the sun .

I'm thinking it's time to go back
to the peach farm or rather
the peach farm seems to be wanting me back
even though the work of picking , sorting , 
the sticky perils and sudden swarms are done . 
Okay , full disclosure , I've never
been on a peach farm , just glimpsed
from a car squat trees I assumed
were peach and knew a couple in school
who went off one summer , so they said , 
to work on a peach farm . She was pregnant , 
he didn't have much intention , canvases
of crushed lightbulbs and screws in paste . 
He'd gotten fired from the lunch counter
for putting too much meat
on the sandwiches of his friends
then ended up in Macy's in New York
selling caviar and she went home
I think to Scranton , two more versions
of never hearing from someone again . 
I'd like to say the most important fruits
are within but that's the very sort of bullshit
one goes to the peach farm to avoid , 
not just flight from quadratic equations , 
waiting for the plumber , 
finding out your insurance won't pay . 
Everyone wants out of the spider's stomach . 
Everyone wants to be part of some harvest
and stop coughing to death and cursing
at nothing and waking up nowhere near
an orchard . Look at these baskets , 
bashed about , nearly ruined with good employ . 
Often , after you've spent a day on a ladder , 
you dream of angels , the one with the trumpet
and free subscriptions to the New Yorker
or the archer , the oink angel , angel
of ten dollar bills found in the dryer
or the one who welcomes you in work gloves
and says if you're caught eating a single peach , 
even windfall , you'll be executed . 
Then laughs . It's okay , kiddo , 
long as you're here , you're one of us .

I have met people who , 
asked after their names , 
shyly - as if they had no title
to an appellation all to themselves - 
replied " Fraulein Christian " and added : 
 " like the first name , " they wanted to make it easy for the other , 
not a difficult name like " Popiol " or " Babendererde " - 
 " like the first name " - please , don't burden your memory overmuch ! 
I have met people who
grew up in a single room with their parents
and four brothers and sisters , and studied at night
with their fingers in their ears at the kitchen table , 
and grew up to be beautiful and self - possessed as duchesses - 
and innerly gentle and hard - working as Nausicaa , 
clear - browed as angels . 
I have often asked myself and never found an answer
whence kindness and gentleness come , 
I don't know it to this day , and now must go myself .

My mother became an ornithologist
when the grackle tumbled through barbecue smoke
and fell at her feet . Soon she learned
why singers cage birds ; it can take weeks
to memorize a melody - 
the first days lost as they mope
and warble a friendless note , 
the same tone every animal memorizes
hours into breathing . It's a note
a cologne would emit if the bottle was struck
while something mystical was aligned
with something even more mystical
but farther away . My father was an astronomer
for forty minutes in a row
the first time a bus took us so far
from streetlights he could point out constellations
that may or may not have been Draco , 
Orion , Aquila , or Crux . 
When they faded I resented the sun's excess , 
a combination of fires I couldn't smell . 
The first chemist was a perfumer
whose combinations , brushed
against pulse points , were unlocked
by quickening blood . From stolen perfumes
I concocted my personal toxin . 
It was no more deadly than as much water
to any creature the size of a roach . I grew suspicious
of my plate and lighter Bunsen burner , 
the tiny vials accumulating in my closet . 
I was a chemist for months
before I learned the difference
between poisoned and drowned . 
When my bed caught fire
it smelled like a garden .

Where do you suppose
they've gone the bees now
that you don't see them
anymore four - winged
among flowers low
sparks in the clover
even at nightfall
are they fanning have
they gone another
place blued with pollen
stuck to their bristles
waiting beyond us
spring dwindle is what
we call it collapsing
neonicotinoids
 " high levels in pneu - 
matic corn exhaust " 
loss of habitat
or disappearing
disease in the way
of our kind so to speak
what do you think
they would call it
language older than
our ears were they
saying it all along
even at daybreak -

Don't take it personal , they said ; 
but I did , I took it all quite personal - 
the breeze and the river and the color of the fields ; 
the price of grapefruit and stamps , 
the wet hair of women in the rain - 
And I cursed what hurt me
and I praised what gave me joy , 
the most simple - minded of possible responses . 
The government reminded me of my father , 
with its deafness and its laws , 
and the weather reminded me of my mom , 
with her tropical squalls . 
Enjoy it while you can , they said of Happiness
Think first , they said of Talk
Get over it , they said
at the School of Broken Hearts
but I couldn't and I didn't and I don't
believe in the clean break ; 
I believe in the compound fracture
served with a sauce of dirty regret , 
I believe in saying it all
and taking it all back
and saying it again for good measure
while the air fills up with I'm - Sorries
like wheeling birds
and the trees look seasick in the wind . 
Oh life ! Can you blame me
for making a scene ? 
You were that yellow caboose , the moon
disappearing over a ridge of cloud . 
I was the dog , chained in some fool's backyard ; 
barking and barking : 
trying to convince everything else
to take it personal too .

There are many opportunities here for unrequited friendship , 
the offer letter said . All you need is a chain saw and die grinder . 
In this spirit I force my eyes across your message , 
revisiting that due diligence tone you do so well . 
I'm searching for some whispered twist or shout , 
but all emotion's leveled , the way a child will draw
a snowman and a mansion the same size . 
What is a dedicated icemaker
dedicated to ? Do you really think
those shades you wear above your head
will keep the sun out of your mind ? 
Rainbows stick to any abject object . 
That's why I'm wearing that same old funky dress . 
When you kissed my forehead it felt like the priest's
thumbscrew touch rubbing in the dust - 
thou - art Ash Wednesday smudge . 
I've learned the dance instructor's expository gestures . 
Now I'm learning tangos to be danced alone . 
While comrades buff officious cases
barfed from their brains - 
eight parts moon venom one part nose waste - 
I ask can mine be personally engraved ? 
I'm living in a please state , smarming
how I've long admired your hardscape of artists
morphed to small appliances . That being said , 
I'm having issues . Do you really think
that scarf will keep your snowman warm ?

I hunted heaven
for him . 
No dice . 
Too uppity , 
it was . Not enough
music , or dark dirt . 
I begged the earth empty
of him . Death
believes in us whether
we believe
or not . For a long while
I watch the sound
of a boy bouncing a ball
down the block
take its time
to reach me . Father , 
find me when
you want . I'll wait .

Our father liked to play a game . 
He played that he was dead . 
He took his thick black glasses off
and stretched out on the bed . 
He wouldn't twitch and didn't snore
or move in any way . 
He didn't even seem to breathe ! 
We asked , Are you okay ? 
We tickled fingers up and down
his huge , pink , stinky feet - 
He didn't move ; he lay as still
as last year's parakeet . 
We pushed our fingers up his nose , 
and wiggled them inside - 
Next , we peeled his eyelids back . 
Are you okay ? we cried . 
I really thought he might be dead
and not just playing possum , 
because his eyeballs didn't twitch
when I slid my tongue across 'em . 
He's dead , we sobbed - but to be sure , 
I jabbed him in the jewels . 
He rose , like Jesus , from the dead , 
though I don't think Jesus drools . 
His right hand lashed both right and left . 
His left hand clutched his scrotum . 
And the words he yelled - I know damn well
I'm way too young to quote 'em .

As I walked up the Rue des Martyrs with my bag of small , perfect , waxy potatoes I doffed my imaginary hat to Monsieur Parmentier . Well , I do have a hat and wore it a lot not so long ago to cover a healing wound on my forehead but this wasn't necessary anymore , and anyway the hat wasn't with me now in Paris . Nor was Monsieur Parmentier , though any remains of him lie in a plot in Pere Lachaise ringed by potato plants . 
I would not be intending to cook my potatoes if not for the duplicitous actions of Parmentier back in the late years of the 18th century . After he'd realized that this odd - shaped tuber looted from the Incas in Peru ( along with their gold and silver ) was extremely nutritious , and no one would believe him , he'd come up with a ruse . Using money given to him by King Louis XVI , he purchased a plot of impoverished ground outside Paris , in Neuilly - sur - Seine , and planted it with potatoes . When the time to dig them came , he built a fence around them and put armed guards outside it . These men wore uniforms the color of potatoes . They were told to leak the news that they were guarding an extremely precious food . Then , one night , they left their post . Thieves arrived within a couple of hours and stole the entire crop . Over the next few days the potatoes were sold in the city's markets as the food of kings . 
So my guests wouldn't know they would be eating the food of kings . Nor would I tell them , though I might well concoct a story about the breed of pigs their pork chops had come from . And the posh wine that had yielded the wine vinegar I'd used in the salad dressing . I could try telling them I'd climbed over the fence of Pere Lachaise the previous night , armed with a phone - torch , a troweling spade , and a canvas bag , and dug the potatoes from Monsieur Parmentier's plot - only taking the small ones that were right for pommes sautees , of course - but I know they wouldn't believe me . 
I was distracted from these smug reveries by my mobile phone ringing . I dug it out of my pocket and answered it , thinking one advantage of being in France was that nobody rang me . The voice at the other end was not one I recognized . It said , at first quietly , " Are you OK ? " then in a louder voice , " Please tell me you're OK over there , " and that was it . When I went to check the number , it had been withheld . What had I landed myself in , I wondered ? I went home to deal with my 19th - century French meal .

Incomprehensible fate that sentenced my father to my mother . I can't blame him , I would have left the raving bitch myself , and would do so many many times in years to come . Then , of course , I came along . There is a limit to what one man can endure . So I suppose I am the reason he left , actually . I am the one to blame . And yet he did his best ; he did all that he was capable of doing , and wrote me every year , like clockwork . He rarely remembered to mail what he wrote me , poor man ( when I think of what I must have put him through ) , barely legible one - sentence postcards he sometimes worked at half the night ; but as they all said the same thing , word for word , it wasn't that bad . He could be forgiven . The blizzard I visit your city disguised as will never be over and never arrive . I think what he was trying to say was that at some point I'd begin to notice I was freezing , wasn't dressed right , had nowhere to go , and was staggering into a blinding snow that no one else could see . I think he meant , the cold will make you what I am today .

Heavy and gray now , dressed in deacon's robes - 
I see you in your Speedo at Floyd Lake , 
its nylon clinging to those golden globes
you exercised for Moorhead football's sake . 
We hiked the Black Trail to Itasca Park , 
but now I see a deacon hard at work
explicating the Gospel of St . Mark , 
our high school quarterback become a clerk - 
in the high sense . A boy with such good looks , 
you could have run to Hollywood and whored
but turned to mastery of sacred books
and the manly mimesis of our Lord . 
Lifesaver , that was your job at Wilderness , 
teaching tenderfoot farm boys how to swim . 
Soulsaver , I would call you now and bless
any man who preaches Saint Mark to Tim . 
We take our coffee outside for the view , 
patrol the walk - about with twelve - foot mesh
where drunks can smoke . What has become of Stu ? 
The Word . Not on the page but in the flesh . 
Prairie St . John's Hospital

" - science per se - " 
my God , when I hear them on the radio saying that , 
it slays me . 
Is there a science that's not per se ? 
I don't get out much , rarely get to see any lakes , 
gardens only sporadically and then behind fences , 
or in allotments , that's about the size of it , 
I rely on ersatz : 
radio , newspaper , magazines - 
so how can people say such things to me ? 
It makes you wonder
whether there are any surrogates for hollyhocks , 
for warm life , French kisses , hanky - panky , 
all those things that make existence a little luxurious , 
and all of them somehow of a piece ! 
No , all this cerebration is not my cup of tea , 
but there are sometimes hours on end
where there's no woman on any wavelength
 ( I receive medium - wave , short - , long - , and VHF ) , 
no voice saying , " first you say no , then
maybe , then yes , " 
nothing but these opinionated pedagogues , 
it seems that everything the West thinks of as its
higher product is produced by the seated male - 
as I say , give me the hanky - panky any day ! 
II
 " - the last vestiges of the ancient culture would have completely disappeared - " 
 ( well , and what if ) 
 " - a sonorous past - " 
 ( la - di - dah ) 
 " - in villages in New Mexico
farmers still bless their fields and livestock
with these songs - " 
 ( very nice , I'm sure , 
but I don't get out of Brandenburg much ) . 
We hear Professor Salem Aleikum , 
the reporter still slavering over him : 
 " the professor is lying on the porch of his house
with his lute cradled in his arm
singing the old ballads " - 
probably on an ottoman , 
with a carafe of ice water at his side , 
rejecting old hypotheses , putting out new ones - 
the great rivers of the world
the Nile , the Brahmaputra , or what the hell do I know
wouldn't be enough to drown all those professors - 
don't have any acreage , don't have any livestock , 
nothing blesses me , life is one continuous affliction , 
but nothing like those professors
teach , teach , teach , 
from every pore , 
who turn everything into illustrated lecture ( with slides ) .

The rain , in the backyard where I watch it fall , comes down at different
rates . In the center a fine discontinuous curtain - or network - falls implacably and yet gently in drops that are probably quite light ; a strengthless sempiternal precipitation , an intense fraction of the atmosphere at its purest . A little distance from the walls to the right and left plunk heavier drops , one by one . Here they seem about the size of grains of wheat , the size of a pea , while elsewhere they are big as marbles . Along gutters and window frames the rain runs horizontally , while depending from the same obstacles it hangs like individually wrapped candies . Along the entire surface of a little zinc roof under my eyes it trickles in a very thin sheet , a moire pattern formed by the varying currents created by the imperceptible bumps and undulations of the surface . From the gutter it flows with the restraint of a shallow creek until it tumbles out into a perfectly vertical net , rather imperfectly braided , all the way to the ground where it breaks and sparkles into brilliant needles . 
Each of its forms has its particular allure and corresponds to a particular patter . Together they share the intensity of a complex mechanism
as precise as it is dangerous , like a steam - powered clock whose spring is wound by the force of the precipitation . 
The ringing on the ground of the vertical trickles , the glug - glug of the gutters , the miniscule strikes of the gong multiply and resonate all at once in a concert without monotony , and not without a certain delicacy . 
Once the spring unwinds itself certain wheels go on turning for a while , more and more slowly , until the whole mechanism comes to a stop . It all vanishes with the sun : when it finally reappears , the brilliant apparatus evaporates . It has rained . 
Translated from the French

I walked along Rue du Faubourg du Temple on the way to Belleville and I stopped at a shop selling rat poison . To my astonishment and my amusement they had a window full of stuffed rats , including four small rats standing round a table , playing cards . I liked that very much . Paris was full of weird turnarounds , it seemed - poisoning and elevating the rats to art at the same time . I nearly went in and asked how much the four rats and the tiny table would cost , but I remembered I'd be going back to Ireland pretty soon , and the people at airport security might not see the joke . 
It was not the first time I'd seen rat poison on sale here . Paris seemed to have a problem with rats . Someone I'd met for lunch recently had said she'd seen them running around the Metro platform when she was coming home once around midnight . I remembered a rat had made a dramatic appearance in one of Baudelaire's little poems in prose . A rich boy had lost interest in his expensive toy because he'd seen a poor boy poking a rat in an improvised cage . I'm pretty sure that wasn't an invention on Baudelaire's part - lots of poor parents probably thought of giving their children ( or at least , their sons ) rats as pets . Hadn't I had a pet mouse myself ? The rich boy who'd seen the rat certainly was delighted at the idea of having the creature as a pet . 
Many years ago a friend of mine who worked as a chef gave me his original copy of Larousse Gastronomique - an edition first published in the 1920s or 30s . In there , I think , was a recipe called Cassoulet de Grand Souris . This was basically rat meat given the coq au vin or boeuf bourguignon treatment , i . e . cooked in red wine with mushrooms and tiny onions . I can't remember which top Parisian restaurant introduced the dish onto their menu during the Siege of Paris in 1870 - 71 , but apparently it proved very popular . It made sense too , as the Siege lasted for more than four months , and no meat was getting in , while rats were plentiful , then as now . I seem to recall the menus of the time sometimes also included rat salami , and a rat sauce called Sauce Robert . It's no use looking in a current edition of Larousse as the book has been cleaned up - all mention of rats have been removed . 
I had some experience of rats when I was a child in Donegal . 
I commonly saw water rats swimming in the stream or small river that flowed behind my primary school . The house I grew up in had rats under the floorboards . I used to love spending time under the stairs , and sometimes the rats would come in through a hole in the back . I don't remember ever having been afraid of them but I never touched them or wanted them to walk on top of me . And I certainly never thought of capturing one and making it my pet . My little pink - eyed albino mouse was rodent enough for me , and even that was a trial for my mother .

The King saith , and his arm swept the landscape's foliage into bloom
where he hath inscribed the secret mysteries of his love
before at last taking himself away . His head away . His
recording hand . So his worshipful subjects must imagine
themselves in his loving fulfillment , who were no more
than instruments of his creation . Pawns . 
Apparati . Away , he took himself and left us
studying the smudged sky . Soft pencil lead . 
Once he was not a king , only a pale boy staring down
from the high dive . The contest was seriousness
he decided , who shaped himself for genus genius
and nothing less . Among genii , whoever dies first wins . 
Or so he thought . He wanted the web browsers to ping
his name in literary mention everywhere on the world wide web . 
He wanted relief from his head , which acted as spider
and inner web weaver . The boy was a live thing tumbled in its thread
and tapped and fed off , siphoned from . His head kecked back
and howling from inside the bone castle from whence he came
to hate the court he held . 
He was crowned with loneliness
and suffered for friendship , for fealty
of the noblest sort . The invisible crown
rounded his temples tighter than any turban , 
more binding than a wedding band , 
and he sat in his round tower
on the rounding earth . 
Read these , 
saith the King , and put down his pen , hearing
himself inwardly holding forth on the dullest
aspects of the human heart
with the sharpest possible wit . Unreadable
as Pound on usury or Aquinas on sex . 
I know the noose made an oval portrait frame for his face . 
And duct tape around the base of the Ziploc
bag was an air - tight chamber
for the regal head - most serious relic , 
breathlessly lecturing in the hall of silence .

The redbreast kills
and kills itself against
the window
Sooner or later the blood in the breast will break the window into hundreds of pieces you can swallow whole
Keep swallowing
The redbreast
loves you and wants you
to remember the love
So it makes you puke into the toilet blind
I was blinded by love
And drowned
in an empty bathtub
spitting up birdshit
Covered in red feathers
Sometimes the redbreast likes anting with lit cigarettes safety pins paper cuts God that feels good
It wraps everything
in pretty pink gauze the color
of fake sunset
Look it is a pink soul ! 
It wants to get naked and it wants it to hurt
Red teeth red toes
Open mouths
Who keeps pressing
my head into the sidewalk
inside the bathroom
Who keeps the lights on the lights stay on
Who dissolves on my tongue
Who flies from my finger
The redbreast sits inside
behind your left eye
behind your right and cleans
its babies with
its beak
Scrubs its babies clean
Shakes its tail feathers to scour the floor behind your forehead and scours the floor red
My brain is a cutter
My initials are beats per second
Scrubbed down to zero
by the rubies
in the halo
I whispered your name into the red air
and you answered

We watched her grow up . 
She was the urgent chirper , 
Fledgling flier . 
And when spring rolled
Out its green
She'd grown
Into the most noticeable
Bird - girl . 
Long - legged and just
The right amount of blush
Tipping her wings , crest
And tail , and
She knew it
In the bird parade . 
We watched her strut . 
She owned her stuff . 
The males perked their armor , greased their wings , 
And flew sky - loop missions
To show off
For her . 
In the end
There was only one . 
Isn't that how it is for all of us ? 
There's that one you circle back to - for home . 
This morning
The young couple scavenges seeds
On the patio . 
She is thickening with eggs . 
Their minds are busy with sticks the perfect size , tufts of fluff
Like dandelion , and other pieces of soft . 
He steps aside for her , so she can eat . 
Then we watch him fill his beak
Walk tenderly to her and kiss her with seed . 
The sacred world lifts up its head
To notice - 
We are double - , triple - blessed .

You have installed a voice that can soothe you : agents
of the eaten flesh , every body
a cocoon of change - 
Puparium . The garden
a birthing house , sarcophagidae - 
And green was so dark in the night - garden , in the garden's
gourd of air - 
green's epitome
of green's peace , the beautiful inhuman
leg - music , crickets'
thrum - 
a pulse
to build their houses by , 
each
successive molt
a tent of skin
in which skin can grow , the metallic sheen
of their blue backs
as they hatch out , winged and mouthed - 
Like in a charnel ground , you sit and see . 
In one of the Eight Great
Cemeteries , you sit and see - 
How the skull - grounds
are ringed by flame , how they spread out under
a diamond tent , how the adepts
pupate
among bones - 
saying I who fear dying , I who fear
being dead - 
Refuge field . 
See it now . 
That assembly of sages you would have yourself
build , 
to hear the lineage
from mouth to ear , encounter the truth - 
chain - 
Saying , Soft eaters , someone's children , who gives them
refuge from want - 
Cynomyopsis Cadavarena . On every tongue
they feed .

refuge temple
254 Purdy Street , Buffalo , NY , childhood home of Lucille Clifton
There will be another storm always on the air
Or in the air or are you the air
Cold unrecognizable following
The inside road
This vessel bears one through
Snow or time to find the house
Paint peeling and maybe unfamiliar but the address
Is to a place that doesn't exist anymore
An empty lot
Now owned by the woman
Next door who leases it to a
Storefront church that needs the space for parking
I take a selfie with the snowbank
254 Purdy Street
Sunday morning they will plow and cars will fill the place
Worshippers filing next door
Names of the family who lived here forgotten
Sayles their name was Sayles
Well there's Miss Bowden says the neighbor
Who lives over there
Ninety years old
Lived here her whole life
If anyone'd remember she would
Though if the house don't hold against the world
And the body don't hold against the world
Snow falling down
What can hold
The church house the neighbor next door
The snow Old Miss Bowden
This empty lot
We empty now
Everybody drive home
Song done over
Snow river hover
House is gone
Stormsent era
That Miss Bowden may remember
The twelve - fingered girl who lived here
We tell the neighbor : her name was Lucille
Playing in the street
Afraid of the dark
Bringing the light
salon des refuses
East Side , Cleveland , OH , apartment building of Julie Patton
In the house of Julie Patton
Bumblebees do sing pollen
In the cave of ears
Every thing listens
Jimi , Barack , and Marilyn Buck
The saints of the place
In vigil of excellent beings
Light poles hold typical beasts
Though here they empty themselves
Into me
Orange spaces do make
A world again for though the gods are mythic
The goddesses spin
Dear Julie sing
Me through the long hallway
The dark one sleeved in your mother's
States of mind
State of mine is the one that opens my body
In heat through dark and salted moments
Body is a book
House does quiver
Unwritten the way of how to find you
House is the book
In the language of feathers that launch
Whose heart could race
Winter air winter season that rushes
How we in dark are slung
The dark that opens its hallways
Time mastered by Shiva and Hanuman
I did stand in the empty space
Filled by snow
Then here in the sun - flirted front room
Watched by Saint Nina Simone and Saint Joan Baez and Saint
Buffy Sainte - Marie
I wonder forward in Sapphic tongue
Who is remember me
Who is open me with their tongue
Who languages the space of a house that don't exist
Better thought sun see Julie sing sanctified
Sing swung sing one and one and one and one
school house
Barrington , Rhode Island , right near the Bay , home of C . D . Wright
and Forrest Gander
When she gives me directions and describes it to me
I expect a red - room schoolhouse
Driving across the water from Providence
Into the stream - laced far shore
Far shore where a boat unlands
To determine the shape of what isn't
There I drive past wrong streets
Wrong houses places whose bells I ring
Stranger in the forest and dark - skinned too
Where do I belong
From the bathhouse I came
Where I worshiped at all manner of strange altars
Does this make me more or less human
Tongue makes you human
And how it translates the body into language
To find the door as it was described to me
Frosted glass and Japanese characters lining it
School saying the language of the sun
No sums add up here
But she calls me in
And I frown to know long to know
What holds the house against the world
How will words survive the dissolution of the body
Of the planet's core
Sore and soar it came down through the cloud cover
Gray - white curtains
House of a dozen languages
At the cold lake the far away lake
She grabbed me post - lecture where I told about how
I could not translate the words of the poet until I came to her own sun - loved city
She begged me to always love all manner of strangers
I thought she meant the regions of the body
I'd have promised her anything though years later in Rhode Island
Named for an island no one can find
Lover I love you forever
House that disappeared
Books that live in the air
Island that no one knows
While on Purdy Street good people park their cars in the snow
Go inside and sing
We don't have nothing more than this anymore
No planet no lover no words no nothing no more

Release , please , this bound one
by the power of your right hand . 
Receive the song of your people , 
exalt us , Lord , and make us
pure . Almighty one , protect
those who seek your oneness : 
Bless them and cleanse them - bestow
upon them your merciful justice . 
Mighty one , holy one , in your
goodness guide your assembly . 
Turn , sole one on high , 
to those who remember your sanctity , 
and accept our cry and plea - 
You who fathom all mysteries .

Revolutionaries [ Alois Lindner , Erich Muhsam , Guido Kopp ] , 1929 by August Sander
Twelve years on , the beard that Lenin wore
Still sharpens revolutionary chins
To dagger - points held ready for the war
In which the outgunned proletarians
Will triumph thanks to these , their generals , 
Whose rounded shoulders and round glasses say
That sedentary intellectuals
Raised in the bosom of the bourgeoisie
Can also learn to work - if not with hands , 
Then with the liberated consciousness
That shrinks from nothing since it understands
What's coming has to come . The monuments
To which the future genuflects will bear
These faces , so intelligently stern , 
Under whose revolutionary stare
Everything that is burnable must burn .

Then I realized I hadn't secured the boat . 
Then I realized my friend had lied to me . 
Then I realized my dog was gone
no matter how much I called in the rain . 
All was change . 
Then I realized I was surrounded by aliens
disguised as orthodontists having a convention
at the hotel breakfast bar . 
Then I could see into the life of things , 
that systems seek only to reproduce
the conditions of their own reproduction . 
If I had to pick between shadows
and essences , I'd pick shadows . 
They're better dancers . 
They always sing their telegrams . 
Their old gods do not die . 
Then I realized the very futility was salvation
in this greeny entanglement of breaths . 
Yeah , as if . 
Then I realized even when you catch the mechanism , 
the trick still works . 
Then I came to in Texas
and realized rockabilly would never go away . 
Then I realized I'd been drugged . 
We were all chasing nothing
which left no choice but to intensify the chase . 
I came to handcuffed and gagged . 
I came to intubated and packed in some kind of foam . 
This too is how ash moves through water . 
And all this time the side doors unlocked . 
Then I realized repetition could be an ending . 
Then I realized repetition could be an ending .

After it came in like a dark bird
Out of the snow , barely whistling
The notes father , mother , child , 
It was hard to say what made us happiest . 
Seeing the branches where it had learned
To stir the air ? The air that opened
Without fear ? Just the branches
And us in a room of wild things ? 
Like a shapeless flame , it flew
A dozen times around the room . 
And , in a wink , a dozen more . 
Into the wall , the window , the door . 
You said the world turns to parts . 
You said the parts are cunning spheres . 
You said you always love the face of sin . 
You said it's here , the lips and eyes and skin . 
Outside the snow deepened
With heaves of discontent . 
Inside , the tremor of our life
Flew in and in and in .

A spring day oozes through Trastevere . 
A nun in turquoise sneakers contemplates the stairs . 
Ragazzi everywhere , the pus in their pimples
pushing up like paperwhites in the midday sun . 
Every hard bulb stirs . 
The fossilized egg in my chest
cracks open against my will . 
I was so proud not to feel my heart . 
Waking means being angry . 
The dead man on the Congo road
was missing an ear , 
which had either been eaten
or someone was wearing it
around his neck . 
The dead man looked like this . No , that . 
Here's a flock of tourists
in matching canvas hats . 
This year will take from me
the hardened person
who I longed to be . 
I am healing by mistake . 
Rome is also built on ruins .

It's not that I harbor a weeping willow
Shadow's worth of longing for those cloaked
Turns and straight - aways , or that swampy
South Mississippi was ever half as tragic
As I dreamed it could be , but that I still cruise
From time to time in the dope - ripe
Ford Fairlane of the mind where nothing
Has changed , where we remain hopelessly
Stoned devotees of the TOWN OF LEAKESVILLE
Emblazoned upon the graffitied water tower's
Testimonies to love . We believed speed
Would save us , would take us fast
And far away from the junkyard wrecks
Stacked in their mile - long convoy to nowhere . 
And though losing the way should
Have seemed the worst of divine betrayals , 
We took it as a minor fall from grace , 
Tail - spun over the embankment rail , rocking
That flung steel body down as if to play
A bar - chord on the barbed - wire fence . 
I'll never know what angelic overseer
Was bored and on duty that night , but we
Rose up and climbed out of the warped last
Breath of that car , no one with so much
As a scratch on his head , not a drop
Of beer spilt , and the radiator hissing
Like a teapot in hell when someone yelled
She's gonna blow ! and each of us standing
There , starving for something more , 
Something other than the black wheel
Spinning that sudden dark , cricketed quiet .

Sankt Georg , what was it , questionable , doubtful , shady , twilit , 
a something area , something Jan said , and he was born in Hamburg , 
and went to school here , so he would know . 
A little isthmus between the Alster with its freshwater sailors
and the railway station , always a reliable drag on things anywhere in Europe
 ( the transients , the drugs , the preset collisions between the foolish young
and the unscrupulous old ) , though this one piped classical music - 
not anymore - 
to the forecourt , where taxi drivers got out
and walked their Mercs around in neutral
because they were hours without a fare and were saving diesel
 ( which was all very well in summer ) , 
and the immediate , somehow always slightly grubby or compromised view
of three theatres , two museums , and le Carre's bunker hotel , 
but , hey , it was classy while it lasted , 
and you could get to Milan or Moscow if you had to . 
Then the Polizeibezirk of underage Puppenstrich about the time
B . came here from the country , 
still often the only girl not on the game , among whores
and winos and people " with an immigration background " 
looking grim and wearing subfusc and doing the messages , as we once said . Then gays - 
is there a pink euro , like a pink pound , and the Pink Pistols and gray wolves ? - 
intrepid advance guard of gentrification . 
So up the rents , send in the heavies , firebomb the buildings , locals out , 
make improvements , and up the rents again , same everywhere . 
A natty pellucid pissoir in the Hanser Platz that it would take Paris to pull off , 
drunks round the monument ( " reel around the fountain " ) , hardy trees and hardier women , 
little roosters , little rosters in the apartment block for cleaning the common parts , 
little brass squares set in the ground for individual fascist outrages , 
with the victims' names , the massy church at the end of the street - 
St . George's , the AIDS church , the rainbow flag , 
the incendiary community paper called the Dragon . 
Sudden sad flurries of flowers , the curt pairs of dates , 
a grown - out bleached person with one leg . 
The main drag changed utterly , 
meaning as usual stylistic diktat from elsewhere
and the birth of an interchangeably frippish hideousness . Three hat shops , 
an empty tea bar ( tax write - off ? money laundry ? ) boasting sixteen varieties of macaroons , 
endless places to stop ( if you even wanted to stop ) on the narrow pavement
between the heedless cars and the nosy passersby , 
expensive ready - cooked food shops with names like Mom's , gone
the hardware store that stocked everything and was staffed by people
who advised you where to find it for even less , out of business , 
or moved away to less promising parts . 
The photo shops , the record store , bookshop . All gone . 
And behind that , the Steindamm , our belly and balls , 
twinned with Kabul , or Mombasa , or Abuja . 
Telephone shops if you wanted to call anywhere with a red , green , and black flag
 ( launch pad of Ali Agca and his crew of martyrs ) , casinos , 
thorny or hairy vegetables , fetish stores , Alphonso mangoes from Pakistan , 
video brothels , limitless mint and parsley and cilantro , hourly hotels , 
cracked olives and fresh cheese , old girls with three words of German , newly baked flatbread . 
The birds strike up between three and four ( it's the Northern light ) , 
while at lit intersections they never stop . 
Twilit , doubtful , shady , something . Questionable .

I never longed for my virginity . 
I heard it on the radio after the hurricane . 
There , in the aftermath , was the voice of a man - 
once the sweet , screwed - up boy whose hooded , 
jessed spirit I tried to possess with the ruthlessness
I mistook for power . Here he was on NPR , 
so gentle , so familiar with devastation , 
his timbre woke the teenage falconer in me
who once saw his kindness as weakness , 
saw a boy as an unfledged goshawk - 
a creature to trap and be trapped with
in darkened mews . I knew the rules : 
neither of us could sleep until the molting bird
grew ravenous enough to take the raw mouse
from my hand . Breaking the falcon
broke us both , left us scared
and less aware of love than fear .

Today the cloud shapes are terrifying , 
and I keep expecting some enormous
black - and - white B - movie Cyclops
to appear at the edge of the horizon , 
to come striding over the ocean
and drag me from my kitchen
to the deep cave that flickered
into my young brain one Saturday
at the Baronet Theater where I sat helpless
between my older brothers , pumped up
on candy and horror - that cave , 
the litter of human bones
gnawed on and flung toward the entrance , 
I can smell their stench as clearly
as the bacon fat from breakfast . This
is how it feels to lose it - 
not sanity , I mean , but whatever it is
that helps you get up in the morning
and actually leave the house
on those days when it seems like death
in his brown uniform
is cruising his panel truck
of packages through your neighborhood . 
I think of a friend's voice
on her answering machine - 
Hi , I'm not here - 
the morning of her funeral , 
the calls filling up the tape
and the mail still arriving , 
and I feel as afraid as I was
after all those vampire movies
when I'd come home and lie awake
all night , rigid in my bed , 
unable to get up
even to pee because the undead
were waiting underneath it ; 
if I so much as stuck a bare
foot out there in the unprotected air
they'd grab me by the ankle and pull me
under . And my parents said there was
nothing there , when I was older
I would know better , and now
they're dead , and I'm older , 
and I know better .

1 . HELL
You'd have to be as crazy as Dante to get those down , 
the infernal hatreds . 
Shoot them . Shoot them where they live
and then skip town . 
Or stay and re - engineer
the decrepit social contraption
to distill the 200 - proof
elixir of fear
and torture the ...the what
from the what ? And didn't I promise , 
under threat of self - intubation , 
not to envision this
corridor , coal - tar black , 
that narrows down and in
to a shattering claustrophobia attack
before opening out
to the lake of frozen shit
where the gruesome figure is discerned ? 
Turn around , go home . 
Just to look at it is to become it . 
2 . PURGATORY , THE FILM
He was chronically out of work , why we don't know . 
She was the second born of a set
of estranged identical twins . They met , 
hooked up , and moved in with her mother , 
who managed a motel on Skyline Drive . 
But always it was the other , 
the firstborn , the bad twin , the runaway , 
he imagined in the shadow
of the " Vacancy " sign
or watching through the window
below the dripping eaves
while they made love or slept . 
The body is relaxed and at rest , 
the mind is relaxed in its nest , 
so the self that is and is not
itself rises and leaves
to peek over the horizon , where it sees
all its psychokinetic possibilities
resolving into shapely fictions . 
She was brave , nurturing , kind . 
She was evil . She was out of her mind . 
She was a junkie trading sex for a fix , 
a chief executive , an aviatrix . 
She was an angel
to the blinded and the lamed , 
the less - than - upright , the infra dig . 
And she was even a failure . 
She went to L . A . to make it big
and crept back home injured and ashamed . 
3 . PURGATORY , THE SEQUEL
They put him in jail , why we don't know . 
They stamped him " Postponed . " 
But he didn't mind . 
The screws were almost kind . 
He had leisure to get his muscles toned , 
mental space to regret his crimes , 
and when he wasn't fabricating license plates
he was free
to remember the beauty
that not once but a thousand times
escaped him forever , and escapes me , too : 
ghosts of a mist drifting
across the face of the stars , 
Jupiter triangulating
with the crescent moon and Mars , 
prismatic fracturings in a drop of dew ...
4 . HEAVEN
There's drought on the mountain . 
Wildfires scour the hills . 
So the mammal crawls down the desiccated rills
searching for the fountain , 
which it finds , believe it or not , 
or sort of finds . A thin silver sliver
rises from an underground river
and makes a few of the hot
rocks steam and the pebbles hiss . 
Soon the mammal will drink , 
but it has first
to stop and think
its reflexive , impeccable thought : 
that thinking comes down to this - 
mystery , longing , thirst .

Now we're all " friends , " there is no love but Like , 
A semi - demi goddess , something like
A reality - TV star look - alike , 
Named Simile or Me Two . So we like
In order to be liked . It isn't like
There's Love or Hate now . Even plain " dislike " 
Is frowned on : there's no button for it . Like
Is something you can quantify : each " like " 
You gather's almost something money - like , 
Token of virtual support . " Please like
This page to stamp out hunger . " And you'd like
To end hunger and climate change alike , 
But it's unlikely Like does diddly . Like
Just twiddles its unopposing thumbs - ups , like - 
Wise props up scarecrow silences . " I'm like , 
So OVER him , " I overhear . " But , like , 
He doesn't get it . Like , you know ? He's like
It's all OK . Like I don't even LIKE
Him anymore . Whatever . I'm all like ... " 
Take " like " out of our chat , we'd all alike
Flounder , agape , gesticulating like
A foreign film sans subtitles , fall like
Dumb phones to mooted desuetude . Unlike
With other crutches , um , when we use " like , " 
We're not just buying time on credit : Like
Displaces other words ; crowds , cuckoo - like , 
Endangered hatchlings from the nest . ( Click " like " 
If you're against extinction ! ) Like is like
Invasive zebra mussels , or it's like
Those nutria - things , or kudzu , or belike
Redundant fast food franchises , each like
 ( More like ) the next . Those poets who dislike
Inversions , archaisms , who just like
Plain English as she's spoke - why isn't " like " 
Their ( literally ) every other word ? I'd like
Us just to admit that's what real speech is like . 
But as you like , my friend . Yes , we're alike , 
How we pronounce , say , lichen , and dislike
Cancer and war . So like this page . Click Like .

I found it in the wash , the orange
shell I picked up on the beach
that last time . One of my girls - 
the one named after you - 
must have found it in my room
and wanted it . Clean calcareous
curve , a palm open to nothing , 
reeking of sunshine
and your death . For years
I didn't know what to do with it . 
You would have liked
this story : how a child
slips grief into a careless pocket . 
Breaks it to pieces . Lets it go .

I was born in Speckled Eggs Garden . 
I will die on Broken Egg Farm . 
I'm hopping between them now , 
I consider everything
to be friendly
and nothing dubbed . 
I am a chick with legs
and yellow hair . 
Oh Lord Almighty , creator of
all things beautiful and sick , 
who prefers another life on top of this , 
who are you to judge ? 
When Adam and Eve vanished
solemnly into the dark , 
shrouding themselves in the forest , 
I was timid and nibbling and
stayed behind , betrayed only
by the plucking of my beak
upon the ground you so graciously
provided ( thanks ) . 
I did noth with the best , 
I am nothing now , do ye
noth with me or not ? 
Hear me now before I break
O Lord of the Margent , 
Lord of noth and straw and all things
sent far , cheerio , sincerely , 
I sleep on one leg too !

Vulture , follow me up : here is the arm
my mother held me aloft with ( as
well as she could , until she couldn't ) , it
is cut free of her body now , pulled
away from her shoulder , away
from her breath , as you , Vulture , point
your wing toward her offered heart , toward me - 
let's pound her fingers into paste , pound the hand
open , come down , I chant , each word opens
the sky , the clouds need to be warned - once
she was hand & now she is wing , once she was dirt & 
now she is air , she was food & now she is bird , she was
lifted & now she is gone .

Pawnbroker , scavenger , cheapskate , 
come creeping from your pigeon - filled backrooms , 
past guns and clocks and locks and cages , 
past pockets emptied and coins picked from the floor ; 
come sweeping with the rainclouds down the river
through the brokenblack windows of factories
to avenues where movies whisk through basement projectors
and children peel up into the supplejack twilight - 
there a black - eyed straight - backed drag queen
preens , fusses , fixes her hair in a shop window on Prince , 
a young businessman jingles his change
and does his Travis Bickle for a long - faced friend , 
there on the corner I laughed at a joke Jim made . 
In the bedroom the moon is a dented spoon , 
cold , getting colder , so hurry sleep , 
come creep into bed , let's get it over with ; 
lay me down and close my eyes
and tell me whip , tell me winnow
tell me sweet tell me skittish
tell me No tell me no such thing
tell me straw into gold tell me crept into fire
tell me lost all my money tell me hoarded , verboten , 
but promise tomorrow I will be profligate , 
stepping into the sun like a trophy .

No children ; 
Cold uncoils in the blood ; 
Science , true , not good
For you . So old , 
Suddenly , or so young . 
Lyric inside not to be sung . 
Plug pulled , screen gone . 
Sun out ; mind
Bountiful , playing pain . 
These are my children
In my head . Unbegotten . 
This is to self - forget , 
To have the future
Born forgotten .

I would like
to take something with me
but even one chair
is too awkward
too heavy
peeling paint
falls off in a suitcase
hinge sounds betray a theft
cheeses won't keep
the clothespin
without its surroundings
would be mediocre
the big thunder rolled elsewhere
the umbrella is for sale
but in a desert what you want is a soaking
the do not disturb sign is tattered
I have many times taken
some cafe's small packets of sugar
so that in Turkey
I might sweeten my coffee with China , 
and in Italy remember a Lithuanian pastry
but where is the coffee
hands left and right useless
knees clattery
heart finally calm
as some hero at the end of a movie
squinting silently into the sun
you can't hold an umbrella there anyhow
and what would he hang from the clothespin

The ugly duckling remained ugly
its whole life but found others
as ugly as itself , I guess that's the message . 
Smoke rises from the heads in the backyard . 
Do you think if I hang around here long enough
someone will proffer a muffin , 
one skulking shadow to another ? 
Soon , my shoes will be part of the populous dirt . 
Have I learned all the wrong lessons , 
the ones you shouldn't know until
the last dew - clogged lawn is mowed
and the sun goes down on the ruined battlements ? 
Why was I given a toy train if not
to stage stupendous wrecks ? Sure , 
I can walk by the sea holding a hand
with as much melancholy as the next fellow , 
substituting the cries of slammed waves
for the droll adumbrations of distraught
skeletons , the day taking on the sheen
of a stone removed from the mouth
and skipped between the breakers jubilant and sunk .

april breath
of boyish red
the tongue crushes
strawberry dreams
hack away wound
and wound the fountain
and on the mouth
perspiration white
from someone's neck
a little tooth
has bit the finger
of the bride the
tabby yellow and sere
howls
the red boy
from the gable flies
an animal hearkens
in his white throat
his juice runs down
pigeon thighs
a pale sweet spike
still sticks
in woman white
lard
an april breath
of boyish red

Thank you whoever tuned the radio
to rain , thank you who spilled
the strong - willed wine for not
being me so I'm not to blame . I'm glad
I'm not that broken tree although
it looks sublime . And glad I'm not
taking a test and running out of time . 
What's a tetrahedron anyway ? What's
the sublime , 3 , 483 divided by 9 , 
the tenth amendment , the ferryman's name
on the River Styx ? We're all missing
more and more tricks , losing our grips , 
guilty of crimes we didn't commit . 
The horse rears and races then moves no more , 
the sports coupe grinds to a stop , beginning
a new life as rot , beaten to shit , Whitman
grass stain , consciousness swamp gas , 
the bones and brain , protoplasm and liver , 
ground down like stones in a river . Or does
the heart's cinder wash up as delta froth
out of which hops frog spawn , dog song , 
the next rhyming grind , next kid literati ? 
Maybe the world's just a bubble , all
philosophy ants in a muddle , 
an engine inside an elk's skull on a pole . 
Maybe an angel's long overdue and we're
all in trouble . Meanwhile thanks whoever
for the dial turned to green downpour , thanks
for feathery conniptions at the seashore
and moth - minded , match - flash breath . 
Thank you for whatever's left .

Something blurred , warmed
in the eye's corner , like woodsmoke
becoming tears ; 
but when you turned to look
the stoop was still , the pumpkin
and tacky mum pot wouldn't talk - 
just a rattle
at the gutter and a sense
of curtains , somewhere , pulled . 
Five of them later , scarfing the oak's
black bole , 
laying a dream of snakes . 
Needy and reticent
at once , these squirrels in charred November
recall , in Virgil , 
what it is to feel : 
moods , half - moods , 
swarming , then darting loose ; obscure
hunches that refuse
to speak , but still expect
in some flash of luck
to be revealed . The less you try
to notice them , 
the more they will know of you .

Deafness to imperatives
is profundity in the wise man , 
children and grandchildren
don't bother him , 
don't alarm him . 
To represent a particular outlook , 
to act , 
to travel hither and yon
are all signs of a world
that doesn't see clearly . 
In front of my window
 - wise man says - 
is a valley
where shadows pool , 
two poplars mark a path , 
leading you will know where to . 
Perspective
is another word for stasis : 
you draw lines , 
they ramify
like a creeper - 
tendrils explode - 
and they disburse crows in swarms
in the winter red of early dawns
then let them settle - 
you will know - for whom .

The dead were still singing Turn the lights down low
Beneath Yellow Bridge where years before , clowning
And ass out , Stick jumped with nothing but the State
Championship trophy in his righteous clutch . The water
Was supposed to be deepest there , and for three seasons
Straight MVPs : Charlie " Fly " Kennison , Long Timmy Long , 
And Rocket Jefferson , those are the names I knew , jumped
Free . But Stick's ankle broke . I fished him out , crumpled
And bawling like the day he was born , like an object of
Baptism , and a life of bad luck followed in the shape of
Floods and fractured lightning , and then , numb , tooth - 
Less , and changed , the dead refused burial , striking out , 2
By 2 , 4 by 4 , from the morgue house to raise trouble at
The bridge . I started hearing birds everywhere after that .

I'd often seen the runway kissed by refugees
and bought - out hostages , an odd drunk and those
renouncing the flying for good , and thought
that surely there must be worse places to touch
freedom . Between the tailfins and the gray town
in the distance , gravity cropped up only at a newsstand , 
and fizzled out with the first bite of the octane damp , 
the view of the parking bunkers and stacked hovels
by the motorway . Everything else , before and after , 
could have fitted into half a cigarette , the sickly sunshine
and endless nights , the flags and oaths ( the very language
I wanted to forget ) , the Celts , the Saxons , the housebroken
Vikings in crowded trains , hopping frozen behind stalls
selling tat to tourists . Not enough time for loving because of
other loves , nor codebooks nor guides except the perennial
A to Z of not giving offense . The words were always there , 
smooth like pebbles ( soap on the tongue ) , and sometimes
the mockery of a commonplace , like that time when we put
up a blackened Union Jack instead of curtains between us
and the Poles on the scaffolding across the road . 
On occasions it seemed good enough to be happy or scared
with the rest , to bring home from the terraces and parades
that sly acceptance , to sit in the shadow of atavism as under
a palm tree , and chew blissfully on the sweet dirt , the taste
of the crowd . Or for an evening make a shortcut through
someone else's work , an incomer's story of a homeland
gained not lost , a fat compendium of patriotic verse ; 
in essence , cheat again . In other words - never spend
too much on a suit rarely worn ... if there had been
loyalty at all , it fell on faces and disappeared with them , 
on promises and smiles , crazy schemes for finding
undiscovered shores . The world , I thought , could be unfolded
anywhere , if only you could fit it into a travel bag , into a clear , 
irrevocable word . It is strange perhaps that even today
I think the same , still in the same place , buried firmly
like a rock in a graveyard , as heavy , and as pointlessly
decorated by lightness . The vows of yesterday skim
the heights like animal shapes we recognize in passing
clouds ; postcards sleep in the unread books . Just like
the nomadic tribes used to , I learn of myself only
with my feet now , from the single map that remained . 
And when streets bring the shortened future a bit nearer , 
with open palm I seek the roughness of the facades , 
and in the friendly pain I find the coarse , unperfected
truth of things . This , I think then , must be what it's like
in the bellies of gigantic animals : wet and quiet , almost
pleasant , once you get used to the smell of those who
passed through before you , and the immutable truth
that there is no going forward or anywhere else ...
Translated from the Bosnian

i early morning
The rain , gray god with its huge hands
has shredded the roses , and clapping , 
kept us up all night , the bridge washed out , 
the troll waiting to gobble a goat . 
How long has he been there , wet and cold , 
impatient , starving , his coat
rent with welts and matted with mist ? 
Father , thundering , his voice full
of bracken and leaves , leaves that in
the autumn clogged the gutters . Who
goes over the bridge ? Who goes there ? 
the billy goats stammering , pawing
the air . But I am the goat and the troll
and so cannot pass nor grant passage . 
ii
The high meadow filled with sweet grass ! 
The spindle puts the moon to bed , 
the window latched , the sheets pulled tight , 
pincushion star , ram butting his head , 
my brother and sister behind and ahead - 
his sister was no use to him either , 
she took what was his , cat's cradle
bridge made of sharp goat's thread . Who
goes there now , over the rickety
bridge ? Tiny steps , lickety - split , 
my place is in the pause between
the thunder and the bridge , Father
shouting over the torn white water , 
hoofprints mark the place last seen . 
iii at the museum ( bellows ) 
For Alexander Nemerov
The man in the left - hand corner
of Bellows's picture of the Dempsey - Firpo
fight , the picture a dream , so not a real
fight - a picture of a fight - his flayed hide
just visible under his blue pinstripes , 
the watcher and the fighter
indistinguishable , one inside
the other , lion and lion tamer , 
the paint daubs faces or fingerprints
and the lights staring and staring across
the fretwork of the ring , and Bellows
himself , next to him , looking surprised , 
as if to be there was to give himself up
without our noticing it , as we all do
in a gesture , or word , leaving something
behind we should have taken with us
or even guarded , a way of not letting
something be over and done with . 
The fight was over in four minutes flat . 
A curious thing about the painting
is that Bellows chose to show us
the moment when Firpo sent Dempsey
careening , with a blow to the jaw , 
one of the two times he laid him out , 
and we , with the spectators crammed
into the foreground of the picture
have to help push Dempsey back
into the ring where two - and - a - half
minutes later he will defeat Firpo , 
who went down four times to his two . 
In Assisi , at the Basilica di San Francesco , 
in the panel in which Giotto depicts
the moment Francis gives away
his worldly goods , the palm that Francis
raises up to the hand that is reaching
down to him from heaven , a hand out
of the blue , open , ready to give or
receive wonders , is the same hand
in Bellows's picture raised behind Dempsey
one wing of a dove , the impulse is
to press our own palms to it , and despite
our better judgment to hurl him back . 
iv blackbirds
A song that Father liked to sing : 
a dozen blackbirds baked alive
but still alive when they did bring
the pie to set before the king - 
what a flurry when the pie was cut ! 
The birds cawed madly as they rose - 
blackbirds flapping blackened wings
who circled back to snip your nose ! 
I see the moon , the moon sees me , 
shining on the apple tree ...
don't sit under the apple tree
with anyone else but me - 
no no , with anyone else but me ...
sound of hurry , over the bridge . 
v at the museum ( wyeth ) 
As always , we want something from the dead , 
even the blackbird , stiff in a kind of grassy net , 
its black leather gangster feet curled up
as if holding on to something it let go - 
and beyond , to the right , inevitably , a house - 
black - shuttered with its high gray wing , 
its bones buried deep in the earth like a beast
that once took flight , bones with the imprint
of feathers , that print repeated in the far away trees
on a rise to the left of the house , a good distance
away , as if the trees had been painted by pressing
a painted leaf to the canvas , the spine
the tablature of a feather , or fish , the scales
clearly marked in miniature , although we know
the trees are much bigger than the blackbird
so stock - still in the spiky grass , so lately landed , 
its glossy mourning coat spit - shined . Under
those trees , a short distance from the house
as nowhere else in the picture , a moment
of repose , the sun on the warm bark , the circle
of cool beneath . But the bird holds us fast , 
a shadow cast by moonlight , the flowers
beside it articulate as the delphiniums
in La Primavera , at the Uffizi , at which we
paused until we could look no longer at
an extreme propensity for beauty , as though it
might explode in smithereens . Autumn , 
the seed pods are moth - eaten moons , dry , rattling . 
In Wyeth's more famous picture , the girl
stranded in the foreground in a clutch of weeds
her awkward limbs stretching in the hissing grass
is in the same place in the picture plane
as the blackbird , we all agreed with this , 
the woman in the white hat - why a hat , 
inside the museum - and her friend , smaller , 
dressed all in black , black shoes , black stockings , 
black dress , although it is summer . 
At once we want to help her as she reaches
the unbridgeable distance of the field
and the meadow filled with rough grass
although it's not so evident how to help her
for even now our heavy limbs twitch with
enchantment , caught in a dream in which
it is impossible to move except by slithering . 
In my sleep you said I said - too many people . 
The black house is a ship on the horizon , 
every light on , or the moon that looks
as if it is following us but from which
we are always veering away , the white wolf
snapping at our heels , goading us to cross
the bridge or waiting for us by the water
its white face wavering under the pilings . 
The girl is a blackbird in the high grass , 
it is natural to mistake one for the other
when it is so difficult despite the painter's
efforts , herculean , really , to see clearly - 
vi saturday night ( at the ballet ) 
Puck , above a game of flashlight tag
the tiniest fairy pirouetting like a dervish - 
the honeysuckle wood alit , one pointed
green - shod foot dangling , like the hand that reached
down to Francis to pull him up to heaven
or rebuke him , or the white hand coming
out of the darkness over the ring : counting
one , two , three , alley , alley , innisfree - 
the three goats balking at the bridge , Father
bellowing over the rushing water
the river loud , rearing its head , foam rushing past
its eyes and ears , Father clamoring , needing
something - the moment we know
it has come to nothing . 
vii ( the dream ) 
The heavens shift . 
And presto ! the tilted abacus
of stars slides back in place , twilight's worn edge rubbed
to a sheen . Queen , ass , Indian child , love - lit quartet , slipping
as the constellations do
behind Gaia's unearthly tilt
leaving us in night's cooler , less demanding air
where our taxi driver has his phone
on speaker : twenty minutes of harangue , 
a hornet trapped inside a troika , the driver
silent except once to say , 
interrupting the ceaseless string of epithets , 
 " You are the women of my dreams . " 
Lights turn from red to green , 
the avenue slick before the curb . Remember ? The crescent
moon scar on my knee - 
Rain patters the windshield , the lights
from the bodega spatter lime and pink . 
A folded scene . 
Above , the moon - 
another night before a halt . 
viii evening and morning
Morning lit by evening's lantern , the cat
a baby falling from the broken bough , 
childhood's terrible litter of fear . 
I am the goat and the goat is me . I see the moon , 
the moon sees me . And if I die before I wake , 
the spirit leaving the body as we sleep
as Giacomo said in the gospel - who said it , where ? 
if the spirit leaves my body where does it go ? 
 - and in the dark the pine knots watching
and your eyes big in the dark , and the sound of breathing . 
In your sleep you said too many people . 
I woke you in the dark and I took you by the hand - 
How far is the moon ? If I folded this piece of paper ? 
But then you would never get there , remember ? 
And your total disregard of me - 
twilight's rainbow a lasso fetching the moon from the water - 
When I was walking I fell from the curb . 
You did not . I did , I did . 
ix the cove
The three children not far off
cross the road to the water
and into the hot high grass , 
their feet light on the flattened
stalks of the cattails that line
the swale like pale raffia
woven expressly for that
purpose , as if the landscape
was a diorama made
of glassine , straw , and folded
paper . Whose children are they - 
one , two , three , walking to
the ruined , silvery , splintery
boat , that looks like a whale come
ashore in the pocket cove
which opens at high tide like
a giantess's compact ? 
There is another smaller
shadow , pulling a kite - or
no , a pull - toy dog , which barks
at an upturned horseshoe crab
and a stained , eyeless , gray - brown
gull . How oddly sound travels
over water . Underfoot
the sun - crazed hermit crabs run
helter - skelter to their bomb
shelters under the wet sand , 
where at dead low tide the marsh
makes a kind of long , humped bridge
of itself to the rapt cove
and the ruined quiet . Psst says
the wind . The children run at
it , lowing their heads , making
horns with their fingers , bashing
themselves in it and through it . 
x case sensitive
Two days I've forgotten where I'm going , 
New York's crossword up and down a litter
of numbers and letters . I spin on the grid , 
round hole in a square peg , each step a rope
bridge hung in air , my tongue a troll who eats
my words , my goat - fur cloak held fast by Pysche's
brooch . " Smile , libling , you have your whole life
ahead of you . " Hold on tight . Even the dead
won't speak to me , my sharp hooves beating
the bank's slick grass , the bog oak's muddy rune . 
Bee disheveled on the stairs , the storm
rattling the panes . " I dreamed I walked and walked
and could not find my way . " Dear God , let me
keep my dreams to myself and do no harm .

Some people say the devil is beating
his wife . Some people say the devil
is pawing his wife . Some people say
the devil is doubling down on an overall
attitude of entitlement toward
the body of his wife . Some people
say the devil won't need to be sorry , 
as the devil believes that nothing
comes after this life . Some people say
that in spite of the devil's public , 
long - standing , and meticulously
logged disdain for the health
and wholeness of his wife , the devil
spends all day , every day , insisting
grandly and gleefully on his general
pro - woman ethos , that the devil truly
considers himself to be an unswayed
crusader : effortlessly magnetic , 
scrupulous , gracious , and , in spite of
the devil's several advanced degrees , 
a luminous autodidact . Some people
say calm down ; this is commonplace . 
Some people say calm down ; 
this is very rare . Some people say
the sun is washing her face . Some
people say in Hell , they're having a fair .

Who won ? I said . 
The game's tomorrow , he said . 
And I became the snail I always was , 
crossing the field in my helmet . 
But I'd given it my all , 
while the plane arced on its way
to a landing , when I overheard
the woman behind us say
I was gathering wildflowers to make a wreath
to lay on my mother's grave when my son
fell off a mountain in Italy
and I felt such joy over the unknown
outcome of her words
I was not ashamed , 
for I can feign interest
in the world , just as she
in that great green meadow
must have .

Whose table is that , left on three legs ? 
If there's been a mistake , it may be
in assuming less vulnerability
as one fills the vase - 
whose buoyant comfort exaggerates
at the sight of his own proffered , 
sympathetic hand , striking him so clean
in comparison
gloved white , magician - for a sec
he even sees the calla lily's furl
in the gesture of voila !

I close my eyes and I see a dot . 
It becomes a spot of light . 
It grows into the size of a person
who distances away
until it returns to a spot of light , 
a dot . 
Like communion bread , 
your words dissolve in my mouth
and never die . 
I don't care under which sky - 
just sing your song till the end . 
The bone - city I am choked by
is also salt
also sugar
also boiling water
in the kettle with no lid . 
Ask not how many houses were built . 
Ask how many residents remained in the houses . 
The flame opens like a giant plant
swallowing them one by one
with their lost and found sheep . 
She whose song
has no beginning
nor end - 
She whose voice faded
into stars and moons - 
Where is she ? 
Where is she ? 
Dreams come in two types : 
vertical and horizontal . 
Tell me the shape of your dream
and I will tell you where you come from . 
Fire and light
both sting . 
We go to sleep when the other half
of the globe wakes up . 
Night and day
crammed with dreams . 
10
Your look
passes through me
like lightning . 
11
The butterfly that flew a moment ago
over the killed ones
was the soul
searching for home . 
12
Our time together
has ripened
and smashed like berries . 
13
Can your camera capture
fear in the eyes
of mother - sparrow , see
the broken eggs in her eyes ? 
14
A little air means so much for the bird . 
In the air , a full world extends . 
The clouds gather and then separate . 
The leaves wave to each other . 
For the bird , everything hangs in the air . 
15
The pomegranate seeds
scattered with our steps
were not from heaven . 
16
My paper boat that drifted into the river
with the world behind it
had a special note . 
It may arrive one day , 
although late , 
all truths come late . 
17
Dried leaves
over there
our first yearnings . 
18
The shoes by the door
will not fit them when they return . 
19
She counts the pebbles by her fingers . 
The other pebbles under water
are losses outside her hands . 
20
Specks of sand
scattered
from the fingers
our people . 
21
The sun reveals
a hole in the boat , 
a glow in the fins
of fish still breathing . 
22
The day and the night
divide our steps on the road
as they equally
divide the world . 
23
I was born . 
I write poetry . 
I will die . 
24
Her shadow
is still here
feeding the birds .

I wanted to write an epic about suffering , 
but when I found a tendril
of her hair among the ruins
of her mud house , 
I found my epic there . 
I didn't sleep last night . 
As if the night
were hiding in the morning coffee . 
Her life is a game of snakes and ladders
sent relentlessly back to square one , 
but whose life isn't ? She takes a breath
and throws the dice again . 
The city glitters below
the airplane window , not because
of the bones and skulls scattered
under the sun , but the view
through the frosted breather hole . 
She died , and time changed
for those she loved most , 
but her watch kept ticking . 
A god carried the burdens
until the weight persuaded him
to transfer them to man - 
the new suffering god . 
The map of Iraq looks like a mitten , 
and so does the map of Michigan - 
a match I made by chance . 
If you can't save people , 
at least don't hate them . 
Her bubbling annoys me - 
can't understand a word she says . 
So what if I toss her from the aquarium ? 
So what if I spill her new world
with this nasty immigrant fish ! 
10
The city's innumerable lights
turning on and off remind us
we are born to arrive , 
as we are born to leave . 
11
The handkerchiefs are theirs , 
but the tears are ours . 
12
Women running barefoot . 
Behind them , stars falling from the sky . 
13
So strange , 
in my dream of us , 
you were also a dream . 
14
He said to me : You are in my eyes . 
Now when he sleeps , 
his eyelids cover me . 
15
Gilgamesh stopped wishing
for immortality , 
for only in death could he be certain
of seeing his friend Enkidu again . 
16
Some say love means
putting all your eggs
in one basket . 
If they all break , 
can the basket remain intact ? 
17
The homeless are not afraid
to miss something . 
What passes through their eyes
is how the clouds pass over the rushing cars , 
the way pigeons miss some of the seeds
on the road and move away . 
Yet only they know
what it means to have a home
and to return to it . 
18
The wind and rain
don't discriminate
in buffeting us . 
We are equal
in the eyes of the storm . 
19
When I was broken into fragments , 
you puzzled me
back together
piece by piece . 
I no longer fear
being broken
in any moment . 
20
Freezing in the mountains
without blankets or food , 
and all they heard was
no news is good news . 
21
Their stories didn't kill me
but I would die if I didn't
tell them to you . 
22
Before killing them
they collected their personal effects . 
Their cell phones are all ringing
in the box . 
23
We are not upset when
the grass dies . We know
it will come back
in a season or two . 
The dead don't come back
but they appear every time
in the greenness of the grass . 
24
If yearning encircles us , 
what does it portend ? 
That a circle has no beginning
and no end ?

Ray Way , Thunderbird Homeagain , 
Hugh and Mia Galore : 
they enjoyed such conversational topics
as Mozart , tobacco , and four . 
 " Today's peach boasts rare fuzz , " said Ray . 
Bird added , " My mind is whale . " 
Mia forgot her songbooks , but Hugh
said , " Let me embrace you all . " 
Ray Way snagged Homeagain by the lapel
and fastened on Home's left blue eye , 
Mia saw Home's green right eye unanchor
and wander away for the sky . 
Then Ray , he let go of Home's lapel , 
and Ray let go of his ire , 
and Ray let go the floor with his feet
to hover a bit on the air . 
Hours ticked while oars pulled
over Lake Eekoutaheart . 
The pelicans kept to their quiet perusals
of fishes , where the ripples teased apart . 
 " Please heal my ruptured soul , " said Mia . 
Ray cheered , " The half - life got lived . " 
Thunder again , he just picked at his sweater
where the yarn and his arms unweaved . 
 " The sky , it must be adhesive , " said Mia , 
 " elsewise the pelicans would fall - " 
Way , still floating , looked her cool in her eye : 
 " Feel my faulty heart : it's full . " 
 " So tell me , do you wonder about the crackers
once you lock the pantry ? " 
 " I know God when I wash my hands . " 
 " Nothing makes sense like entropy . " 
 " And the pelican , does it unloose its eggs
like snow , an unbreakable good ? " 
 " And does love shape the snow to hope's ellipses ? 
 " Who warms the nest - who could ? " 
 " What's next when your own eyes won't let you go ? " 
 " But the clouds won't let me fall . " 
Hugh stood up and repeated , softly : 
 " Let me embrace you all . "

A mockingbird
perched on the hood
of a pay phone
half - buried in a hedge
of wild rose
and heard it ring
The clapper ball
trilled between
brass gongs
for two seconds
then wind
and then again
With head cocked
the bird took note
absorbed the ringing
deep in its throat
and frothed
an ebullient song
The leitmotif
of bright alarm
recurred in a run
from hawk
to meadowlark
from May to early June
The ringing spread
from syrinx to syrinx
from Kiowa
to Comanche to Clark
till someone
finally picked up
and heard a voice
on the other end
say Konza
or Consez or Kansa
which the French trappers
heard as Kaw
which is only the sound
of a word for wind
then only the sound of wind

I now release from my blood the bird of thirty she wasted
that's how wars crumble us
I now tell those who are exhausted from the expense
of children the secret of happiness and happiness itself
from what is arrived at but doesn't come
from the language of balance
defeat has the taste
of being shrouded with another's banner
while your enemies chant your names
Some music some shelling
will strike our dead who flew off in the early raids
have you seen them return from their flying ? 
They stayed behind hanging by the thread
of their surprise and by their women's hair
We will dance in the wreckage drink the coffee
our dead left brewing we will open our tombs
to windows for the sea in order
for the sea to remain besieged
Right here right here
a corpse shook its trunk in the earth a corpse snapped
God's ropes houses gathered then hid
what's easy to interpret of people's speech
Which mourners ebbed and turned the sea to tombstones
for our dead which poem was said and revived us ? 
And that huge rose of ours our only bewilderment
our offense on earth our balcony
on the kingdom of heaven the grandfather's house
a hand that gestures farewell
in the roar of the massacre a white hand like old time
a free hand like death after death
Tell my love space has been plucked
tell her to sleep on disaffection's stone
Two raids three raids a whole morning
a year of long bombardment over your going
Did you forget a newspaper of palm fronds
a time of white dawn some hay from last season's siege
a brief greeting like a mumbling
on mornings of slow advance
a suitcase a rug a palm with which you touched the evening
of shelling into a meaning
for a people kind and assured and silent ? 
Whenever glass shook you would shriek
kid I pluck
your death's anemone and eat it
Each land has its people
each time has its folks and time
for a while now has been standing on our throats
As if we don't love or hate as if we've seen the land
only as a bracelet a house a dress a poem left filled
with those who were killed without war
Memory shrinks until it fits in a fist
memory shrinks without forgetting
a boy in a farm a chicken on a roof
a dot on the planet mysterious and intuitive like parents
or a tree for a hat with prairies
for a dictionary and days like sleeves
short in summer cotton in winter
they resist when squeezed between our knees
A not so First World rains on a calm boy
torn apart like a tattered tent
The lily of words enters his heart takes a wedding
by the horns a well - trained bulbul
by the scandalous fruit rush of the river
His return will be washed shrouded
a field's first flower guarded by dirt
Coffee coffee for the beautiful one
whose heart's a tambourine this morning
while war shouts cold on slopes
In the saddles grass grows
warmth matures in oleander
the river pours in your absence
everything will happen
I exchanged half of my books to sit near you
flung my hand so that it may see you
then retrieved it to touch what it saw
We slept like sponges near the river butterflies descended
from the ribs of shadow then left behind
a mirror pitched like a house of jinn
It'll be difficult that you go
before you choose a grave fit for sleep
It'll be difficult that you die
before you choose a grave fit for running
for flood swimming for dense reeds by irrigation channels
for bird snares for the lettuce garden in the backyard
for old dry thatch on mud roofs
for jujube shrubs for climbing on trucks and holding on
to vegetable boxes for the diffusion of secrets
loading and unloading in the big market
A grave fit for you to see Jericho light up
through the windows as a neon garden
the refugee camps by the marshes touch
A grave fit for you to see Jericho's convent toss
grass liquor our way fir for some arches
where oleander wilts near Bedouin tents
And their watchdogs will dig and dig
and dig and dig and you won't come
And the mules in the junkyards
does anyone feed their loneliness when they cry ? 
Or has anyone quenched their oneness or washed
their dead necks or visited them to remember how
they blackened in their sleep ? 
The mules the movie extras who fold their torsos
in the packed air as lineage
floats on light an icon
of wondrous dust and riddles
And our neighbor the one whose voice
fenced us with reeds all day and all night
She would forget her rings in our hands
two boys who used to dance for her

Out the barred window sandbags
in a sagging wall surround the guard post
where a soldier half - hidden by the flag
holds his rifle on his knees and looks a little lost . 
It's Sunday and quiet , the traffic noise
off aways , the sea behind the post flat as the tarps
pulled tight over the troop trucks . 
Somewhere down the hall soldiers are being boys , 
telling some joke in Arabic
in which I'm pretty sure I hear the word " zubrak " : 
I walk between shelves loaded with canned rations , 
the cool expiring slowly in the high - ceilinged room
while a pinned - up PSYOPS leaflet declares , 
If you sleep in a cemetery , you're bound to have nightmares . 
No one sees the doll's decapitated head small
and neat in rubble . Never tired or sleepy , 
the head is its own country
obstinately surviving , the pupil
of its one eye peering through the glass's pure
transparency . And a few feet away lie its slim , plastic , 
long - legged thighs almost like
an obscenity the eye watches over - 
no one in the street , nothing but bolt - marks
from tank - treads scarring the concrete
to give any of it drama - and what
about the way the lips' frozen smirk
keeps daring me to touch the sexless V
between the thighs staring up at me ? 
The barracks dissolve into a reef of rubble in the fog . 
On either side of the road , crater after crater
flashes with glints of glass , plastic bags , 
a chair leg clinging to a dismembered chair . 
The TV station , the power stacks
thrusting up through mist , the black - bearded posters
and banners strung across
the streets lead to an absolute nowhere : 
all that's left in the emptied town
after the army pulled out are PSYOPS leaflets
fluttering up around the car that winds
down the coast road deeper into mist , headlights
probing like instruments in a wound
they illuminate the more they violate .

I surrender my weapons : 
Catapult Tears , Rain - Cloud Hat , 
Lip Zip , Brittle Coat , Taut Teeth
in guarded rows . Pluck this plate
of armor from my ear , drop
it in the Amnesty Bin , 
watch my sadness land among
the dark shapes of memory . 
Unarmed , now see me saunter
past Ticking Baggage , Loaded
Questions , Gangs of Doubt ; my love
equips me . I swear , ever
since your cheeky face span round
I trust this whole bloody world .

A childless , futureless road
And then nothing ... Is that it ? 
Or start believing in a God
Beyond the temporal limit
Of westering skies , wide , melancholy , 
Uncut fields and paced - out walls
As we drive towards it slowly , 
The house that has us both in thrall . 
They are gone , now , the hours of light
It took to get here . Might - have - beens , 
Lost wanderyears . But that's alright - 
We are trading it in , the seen
For the experienced , the car keys
For the end of the journey , 
When distances have lost their power
And the heart beats slower
In tomorrow's cold , a coming weather
One degree north of yesterday . 
High latitudes - as they say , 
There is nothing up here
But wind and silence , passing clouds , 
Light diminished half a tone , 
A dish left out all night for the gods
By morning turned to stone . 
So take a right , go down two gears
And stay in second , where the church is
And the pig farm . Only the approaches
Are terrible , only the years , 
The getting here , which takes forever . 
A boy in tears , a barren crone
On a bicycle , a man alone - 
They're waving ... It's now or never
For the final self , I assume - 
For the shape of the house
On the skyline , the release
Into childhood , and the coming home .

The barnacle is rather odd - 
It's not related to the clam
Or limpet . It's an arthropod , 
Though one that doesn't give a damn . 
Cousin to the crab and shrimp , 
When larval , it can twitch and swim , 
And make decisions - tiny imp
That flits according to its whim . 
Once grown , with nothing more to prove
It hunkers down , and will remain
Stuck fast . And once it does not move , 
Has no more purpose for a brain . 
Its one boast is , it will not budge , 
Cemented where it chanced to sink , 
Sclerotic , stubborn as a grudge . 
Settled , it does not need to think .

Into perplexity : as an itch chased round
an oxter or early man in the cave mouth
watching rain - drifts pour from beyond
his understanding . Whether to admire
the mere sensation , enough , or hold out
for sweeter ornament , vessels of wonder
born with that ur - charm of symmetry ; 
lovely ones we ache to prize and praise , 
climb into and become because they try
our day - by - day significance : some of us
ugly and most of us plain , walked past
in the drowned streets : pearls of paste , 
salted butter , secondary colors . They
drift unapproached , gazed never - selves , 
blunt paragons of genetic industry . We
desire them but cannot want such order . 
We stand , mouths open , and cannot help
stammering our secrets , nailed to water .

Says fifty - four - year - old obese Hispanic
female - I wonder if they mean the one
with long black braids , Peruvian , who sells
tamales at the farmers' market , tells
me I'm too thin , I better eat ; or is
she the Dominican with too much rouge
and almond eyes at the dry cleaner's who
must have been so beautiful in her youth ; 
or maybe she's the Cuban lady drunk
on grief who I've seen half - asleep , alone
as if that bench were only hers , the park
her home at last ; or else the Mexican
who hoards the littered papers she collects
and says they are her " documents " ; if not , 
it could be that Colombian drug addict
whose Spanish , even when she's high , is perfect ; 
or maybe it's the one who never says
exactly where she's from , but who reminds
me of my grandmother , poor but refined , 
lace handkerchief balled up in her plump hand , 
who died too young from a condition that
some doctor , nose in her chart , overlooked .

What stays in
Doesn't come out
Nipples hard with milk
When things are of another time
They are of that time
Not timeless
They are no longer here
Nipples hard with liquid or falsities
White and soft
I can't get it out
No matter how hard I yank
Or pull and suck
Face watching with my own
Nipple in my mouth
Like the room she's in
I went and I seduced
But no matter what
I couldn't get her to leave
Aqua and in the morning , coffee
The bathroom gold and green
No matter what I said
She stayed there
She had her own fantasies to wait for
Milk that never comes out
It grows inside
Does it fold back in time
I want to say it becomes different
The man who grafted another face
What poems I wrote for him
No I want to say
That when you came at me
With the syringe
That I loved you
In gold and green
You came at me
Revision upon revision
Of your love
It wasn't like you
To give up
I knocked and knocked
And you went back
Into your doorway
What days
The nipples rising
With future things to come
What happened to those thoughts
To those people
I loved that woman
In the building
Sunset road
The place
With the dead babies
But no matter what I did
How hard I yanked
She would never leave
I knocked and knocked
No matter what I did
Or said
I just couldn't
Get her out of there

If you are going there by foot , prepare
to get wet . You are not you anymore . 
You are a girl standing in a pool
of clouds as they catch fire in the distance . 
There are laws of heaven and those of place
and those who see the sky in the water , 
angels in ashes that are the delta's now . 
They say if you sweep the trash from your house
after dark , you sweep away your luck . 
If you are going by foot , bring a stick , 
a third leg , and honor the great disorder , 
the great broom of waterfowl and songbirds . 
Prepare to voodoo your way , best you can , 
knowing there is a little water in things
you take for granted , a little charity
and squalor for the smallest forms of life . 
Voodoo was always mostly charity . 
People forget . If you shake a tablecloth
outside at night , someone in your family
dies . There are laws we make thinking
it was us who made them . We are not us . 
We are a floodplain by the Mississippi
that once poured slaves upriver to the fields . 
We are a hurricane in the making . 
We could use a magus who knows something
about suffering , who knows a delta's needs . 
We understand if you want a widow
to stay single , cut up her husband's shoes . 
He is not himself anyway and walks
barefoot across a landscape that has no north . 
Only a ghost tree here and there , a frog , 
a cricket , a bird . And if the fates are kind , 
a girl with a stick , who is more at home , 
being homeless , than you will ever be .

It was winter , near freezing , 
I'd walked through a forest of firs
when I saw issue out of the waterfall
a solitary bird . 
It lit on a damp rock , 
and , as water swept stupidly on , 
wrung from its own throat
supple , undammable song . 
It isn't mine to give . 
I can't coax this bird to my hand
that knows the depth of the river
yet sings of it on land .

Distrust this season breeds
in me whole
blue worlds , am second
to leafy nouns , 
pinned back darkening lip
of the night , 
untrustworthy sidewalk glazed
and sleeping there , 
peachy trees , a line drawn from one
brow of a star down
and planted , each pillow
little shimmer , little wilt startled
from out the arranging field
moonlit pale behind
no foxes , in me finding the fragrant
new crisis , not dead still
where I love you in feast
and pledge , worlds rolling first
on crookedly
and on .

Warmth activates the sugars , 
and sugars rally
in the gorse , in the flowers
it sees with , the scent
that is its voice , 
the nontoxic fragrant wood
good for cutlery , and for burning , 
though it flares out quickly , 
unlike smoldering peat . Are they converting
sugars of their loneliness
to conviction ? Burning
their sugars on the wicks
of their frailty , 
one can nearly read by them , 
as Fillan in his own cave read
by the light of his broken arm , 
one of the horrible miracles
of the times - 
St . Fillan , the Human Flashlight , 
patron of the mentally ill - 
an unenviable between - worlds
position . 
Whereas marsh orchids , 
fully in this one , 
change their clothes
out in the open , hard candy
in their mouths , 
the sugars plump , round , smooth , 
unlike seawater's jagged molecules , 
which when drunk like anger
will tear through you . 
Like bitterness , desiccate you . 
To survive , suffering burns
the strength of the afflicted . If , 
left in Fillan's cave , 
bonds of the stricken
were loosened by morning , 
his spirit had intervened to convert
the molecules of their madness , 
and still later did smugglers stash there
some of those little things
that make life worth living . 
The highly edible
sweet gorse flowers
produce a coconut - flavored wine
if one enjoys the luxury of time , 
and a tea prescribed in cases
of uncertainty , 
for those who appear
to have lost all hope .

Outside the igloo he waited
for an invitation to come inside . 
There was no knocker , no doorbell . 
He coughed , there was no reply . 
He crouched down and peered in . 
He felt the warm air from a fire
pat his cheeks and ruffle his hair . 
Hello he said quietly and repeated it . 
The frost in his toes urged him in , 
so did the pain in his gut . His knees
one by one welcomed the snow
and brought him into the warmth . 
He stood up and breathed deeply . 
He held a foot up to the flames
then swapped it for the other foot . 
He lay down on the polar bear rug
but a smell yanked him upright again
and led him to a dresser of bone
where a bowl sat with a cover on it . 
He lifted this to reveal dried meat . 
He grabbed a chunk and tore at it
with his teeth . It was reindeer . 
He devoured all that was in the bowl
and went looking for some more . 
He found none , but there was a bottle
of firewater which he swigged . 
He swigged again and left it down . 
He lay on the bearskin and fell asleep .

As in , in the , of course . The body knew
the drill by now . Was are we there yet and then
never been so , then so long . Heart tied
with twine , with shorthairs , trip wires - whispered that bind . 
Drew the short straw , scared herself apart
to spit - sweet shards and into time that counted
backwards from two lips ago . Said done
is done and is between me and those teeth . 
Some little story about dignity . 
We're there yet . Said trussed me . Body the white flag , 
body the pulley . Hoist up and sang to beat
the heart back down again - stick - stone , stick - stone .

I don't know how it happened , but I fell - 
and I was immense , one dislocated arm
wedged between two buildings . I felt some ribs
had broken , perhaps a broken neck , too ; 
I couldn't speak . My dress caught bunched
about my thighs , and where my glasses shattered
there'd spread something like a seacoast , or maybe
it was a port . Where my hair tangled with power lines
I felt a hot puddle of blood . 
I must have passed out , 
but when I woke , a crew of about fifty
was building a winding stairway beside my breast
and buttressing a platform on my sternum . 
I heard , as through cotton , the noise of hammers , 
circular saws , laughter , and some radio
droning songs about love . Out the corner
of one eye ( I could open one eye a bit ) I saw
my pocketbook , its contents scattered , my lipstick's
toppled silo glinting out of reach . 
And then , waving a tiny flashlight , a man
entered my ear . I felt his boots sloshing
the blood trickling there . He never came out . 
So some went looking , with flares , dogs , dynamite
even : they burst my middle ear and found
my skull , its cavern crammed with dark matter
like a cross between a fungus and a cloud . 
They never found his body , though . And they never
found or tried to find an explanation , 
I think , for me ; they didn't seem to need one . 
Even now my legs subdue that dangerous
sea , the water bright enough to cut
the skin , where a lighthouse , perched on the tip
of my great toe , each eight seconds rolls
another flawless pearl across the waves . 
It keeps most ships from wrecking against my feet . 
On clear days , people stand beside the light ; 
they watch the waves' blue heads slip up and down
and scan for landmarks on the facing shore .

It never looks warm or properly daytime
in black - and - white photographs the sheer cliff - 
face of the ship still enveloped in its scaffolding
backside against the launching cradle
ladies lining the quay in their layered drapery
touching their gloves to their lips and just as
They That Go Down to the Sea in Ships rises
from choirboys' mouths in wisps and snatches
and evil skitters off and looks askance
for now a switch is flicked at a distance
and the moment swollen with catgut - 
about - to - snap with ice picks hawks' wings
pine needles eggshells bursts and it starts
grandstand of iron palace of rivets starts
moving starts slippery - sliding down
slow as a snail at first in its viscous passage
taking on slither and speed gathering in
the Atlas - capable weight of its own momentum
tonnage of grease beneath to get it waterborne
tallow soft soap train oil a rendered whale
this last the only millihelen her beauty
slathered all over the slipway
faster than a boy with a ticket in his pocket
might run alongside it the bright sheet
of the Lough advancing faster than a tram
heavy chains and anchors kicking in
lest it outdoes itself straining up
to a riot of squeals and sparks lest it capsizes
before its beginning lest it drenches
the aldermen and the ship sits back in the sea
as though it were ordinary and wobbles
ever so slightly and then it and the sun - splashed
tilted hills the railings the pin - striped awning
in fact everything regains its equilibrium .

When the mink ran across the meadow in bunched
black parabolas , I thought
sine and cosine , but no - 
the movement never dips
below the line . The creature vanished
into barberries . Absolute
predator who cracks a rabbit's spine
in one bite . And my mind
leapt along a track to a summer field
where I walked years ago
to a stony spit out into the North Atlantic
with a young man I hardly knew , and his sister . 
He was bald , dying
of a brain tumor . I ignored
his illness and we spoke of history . 
He was gentle , scholarly . Why
do I remember him
when it was his sister I painted seated in tall grass , 
her forehead wide , brown hair framing her face , 
ocean a cobalt swatch behind ? 
Islands humped in little arcs across the bay . 
That canvas is stacked in a closet . 
But it's the dead boy
I've stored inside me all these years , 
scared of the otherworldly light
around his eyes . Scared and ashamed
of what I didn't know . Ashamed of my fear
that made his death , when it came , 
unspeakable . So history bounds
into the present , glitter - eyed , with musky anal glands
and daggering eyeteeth . Because that boy
wasn't dead : he must be killed again .

Some species can crack pavement with their shoots
to get their share of sun some species lay
a purple froth of eggs and leave it there
to sprinkle tidepools with tadpole confetti
some species though you stomp them in the carpet
have already stashed away the families
that will inherit every floor at midnight
But others don't go forth and multiply
as boldly male and female peeling the bamboo
their keepers watching in despair or those
endangered species numbered individually
and mapped from perch to oblivious perch
For weeks the world it seemed was plagued
with babies forests dwindling into cradles
rows of women hissing for an obstetrician
babies no one could feed babies received
by accident like misdirected mail
from God so many babies people hired
women to hold them babies babies everywhere
but not a one to name When we got home
the local news showed us a mother with
quintuplets she was suckling them in shifts
a mountain of sheets universally admired
a goddess of fertility her smile
could persuade the skies to rain Her litter
slept ointment - eyed in pink wool caps while Dad
ran his hand through his hair thinking maybe
of money as he stood surveying his
crowded living room his wealth of heartbeats
Pizza and pop that night and there unasked inside
the bottlecap was Sorry - Try Again
you set it down and did not speak of it
the moon flanked by her brood of stars that night
a chaste distracted kiss goodnight that night
your body quiet having spilled its secret
your palms flat on your belly holding holding
Forgive me if I had no words that night
but I was wondering in the silence still
begetting silence whether to console you
if I consoled you it would make the loss
your loss and so we laid beside ourselves
a while because I had no words until
our bodies folded shut our bodies closed
around hope like a book preserving petals
a book we did not open till the morning when
we found hope dry and brittle but intact

Back there then I lived
across the street from a home
for funerals - afternoons
I'd look out the shades
 & think of the graveyard
behind Emily Dickinson's house - 
how death was no
concept , but soul
after soul she watched pour
into the cold
New England ground . 
Maybe it was the sun
of the Mission , 
maybe just being
more young , but it was less
disquiet than comfort
days the street filled with cars
for a wake - 
children played tag
out front , while the bodies
snuck in the back . The only hint
of death those clusters
of cars , lights low
as talk , idling dark
as the secondhand suits
that fathers , or sons
now orphans , had rescued
out of closets , praying
they still fit . Most did . Most
laughed despite
themselves , shook
hands & grew hungry
out of habit , evening
coming on , again - 
the home's clock , broke
like a bone , always
read three . Mornings or dead
of night , I wondered
who slept there & wrote letters
I later forgot
I sent my father , now find buoyed up
among the untidy
tide of his belongings . 
He kept everything
but alive . I have come to know
sorrow's
not noun
but verb , something
that , unlike living , 
by doing right
you do less of . The sun
is too bright . 
Your eyes
adjust , become
like the night . Hands
covering the face - 
its numbers dark
 & unmoving , unlike
the cars that fill & start
to edge out , quiet
cortege , crawling , half dim , till
I could not see to see -

Oh this Diet Coke is really good , 
though come to think of it it tastes
like nothing plus the idea of chocolate , 
or an acquaintance of chocolate
speaking fondly of certain times
it and chocolate had spoken of nothing , 
or nothing remembering a field
in which it once ate the most wondrous
sandwich of ham and rustic chambered cheese
yet still wished for a piece of chocolate
before the lone walk back through
the corn then the darkening forest
to the disappointing village and its super
creepy bed and breakfast . With secret despair
I returned to the city . Something
seemed to be waiting for me . 
Maybe the " chosen guide " Wordsworth
wrote he would even were it " nothing
better than a wandering cloud " 
have followed which of course to me
and everyone sounds amazing . 
All I follow is my own desire , 
sometimes to feel , sometimes to be
at least a little more than intermittently
at ease with being loved . I am never
at ease . Not with hours I can read or walk
and look at the brightly colored
houses filled with lives , not with night
when I lie on my back and listen , 
not with the hallway , definitely
not with baseball , definitely
not with time . Poor Coleridge , son
of a Vicar and a lake , he could not feel
the energy . No present joy , no cheerful
confidence , just love of friends and the wind
taking his arrow away . Come to the edge
the edge beckoned softly . Take
this cup full of darkness and stay as long
as you want and maybe a little longer .

A book with poems
about Bessie Smith , 
Marilyn Monroe , 
Queen Elizabeth , 
William Tell , 
W . B . Yeats , 
Ted Hughes , 
Sitting Bull , 
an otter , a fox , and a hare
won the Pulitzer Prize
in the first year
of the war . 
In the second year , 
the year of insurgency , 
of bridges , corpses , 
blindfolds , and dogs , 
a poet who wrote
about the only species
that commits suicide
received the prize . 
In the year of boycotts
and stained fingertips , 
the third of the war , 
the prize went
to a retired life insurance executive
who lived on acreage
near the village of Garland , 
Nebraska . 
Disappearance , 
from one life
to another , 
was the subject
of the prizewinner
in the year of growing
sectarian violence , 
the fourth of the war , 
also the year of verdict
and hanging . 
In the fifth year , 
of surge
and black water , 
the civil war continued , 
and the prize
was given to a book
about our civil war , 
which ended
143 years earlier . 
In the sixth year , 
the prize was granted
to a poet who wrote a lovely poem
about war , the war
in Europe , 
where white men
killed each other
by the millions ; 
his poem
still mentioned an Arab , 
a young man who performs
an act of purification , 
removing hair
from his body , 
before flying
a plane into an office building , 
an act that took place
fifty - eight years after the war
the poem is actually about . 
The prize was shared
in the sixth year of the war , 
the other book
evoking pleasures
 ( of family , beaches , and dogs ) 
and horrors
 ( of young men
purifying their bodies
with speed
and conviction ) . 
In the seventh year , 
the year of ceasefire
and effigy , 
the prize was presented
to a book about loss , 
memory , 
and the continuum of time ; 
the book was named
after a dog
in the sky . 
The war went on , 
for eight years now , 
and many
soldiers
 ( 300 , 000 ) 
were returned home , 
and many
others
 ( not soldiers , 
too many to count ) 
were returned
to the earth ; 
this was the year
of exit strategies , 
and a book described as filled
with " little thought - bombs " 
won the Pulitzer Prize . 
In the year of renaming , 
the ninth , a new dawn
replaced freedom , 
and the prizewinner
had served
as United States Poet Laureate
in the war's sixth , 
seventh , and eighth years . 
The last year , 
the year of withdrawal , 
the prize was given to a book
named after life
on another planet , 
which is a yearning
for another way to live , 
which is also
another way to die . 
Long after life on Earth
the depleted uranium
in the Tigris
will reach its half - life , 
four and a half billion years
after the tenth year of the war , 
which is
the end of time .

I get there early and I find a chair . 
I squeeze my plastic cup of wine . I nod . 
I maladroitly eat a pretzel rod
and second an opinion I don't share . 
I think : whatever else I am , I'm there . 
Afterwards , I escape across the quad
into fresh air , alone again , thank god . 
Nobody cares . They're quite right not to care . 
I can't go home . Even my family
is thoroughly contemptuous of me . 
I look bad . I'm exactly how I look . 
These days I never read , but no one does , 
and , anyhow , I proved how smart I was . 
Everything I know is from a book .

Skipping out from the major international cocktail party
with my becleavaged blight , a jeroboam in her tight fist , 
I broke open my copy of Sarcasm for Beginners , i . e . , men . 
Never had I seen so many pairs of to - the - elbow gloves . 
Never did I see a puttoed ceiling groan so with thin talk
as the great , the grim and the gone pressed terrible flesh , 
so many penguins offering tastesome wisps and skimps
from doilied salvers : cherry - shaded caviar , cheese puffs , 
dark sugared berries , dainty octopods , gently vinegared , 
with not enough tentacles to count the capes and stoles , 
fine bespoke pashminas , silk snoods , at least one vicuna
suit , tainted with gold thread . I'd seen down a Blenheim , 
two Lime Rickeys and was eyeing a gamine mixologist
who was straining out Savoy Royales when my raddled
nemesis limped over to announce she had encountered
my latest screed , all four foot eleven of her tortoiseishly
quivering , a nubbin of cream cheese on her whiskery lip
and her good eye withering my borrowed companionette
as she leaned on air . I am not a man who has not known
the turmoil women offer , the gift you accept of their wit , 
the way you'd slip a hand into a gloveful of cockroaches , 
comply with a last - minute call to join a seal cull . Tanya , 
I pouted , I am awed and honored you opened a window
in your schedule even to glance at my inconsequential
outpourings . At which point she clattered out a scoffing
gibe so sour you couldn't blend it with a chemistry set
from Hamley's and , seizing my escort by her neat wrist , 
we tore out onto Jermyn Street , along which I performed
a sort of shuffle , one eye on the book and one on m'lady's
competition - standard backside as she led us to the Ritz .

None of us understands our story better
than this nonentity , unconscious slip
of nature , nonetheless our common parent
dilating at the bottom of the sea . 
The parent , too , of octopus and pony , 
of reefs and villages , once it was strange
simply for being not a rock itself - 
not rock , but a blank sleep on a rock shelf . 
And , deeply sympathetic to the rock , 
to sea and sea - dust washing through its skin , 
it knows , although it doesn't know it knows , 
that minds and their milieux are all one thing . 
Some see its way of thinking ; most , not yet . 
Still , one day , just by living , all will find
reason enough within themselves to think
the single thought forever in its mind .

This is the multitude , the beasts
you wanted to show me , drawing me
upstream , all morning up through wind - 
scoured heather to the hillcrest . 
Below us , in the next glen , is the grave
calm brotherhood , descended
out of winter , out of hunger , kneeling
like the signatories of a covenant ; 
their weighty , antique - polished antlers
rising above the vegetation
like masts in a harbor , or city spires . 
We lie close together , and though the wind
whips away our man - and - woman smell , every
stag - face seems to look toward us , toward , 
but not to us : we're held , and hold them , 
in civil regard . I suspect you'd
hoped to impress me , to lift to my sight
our shared country , lead me deeper
into what you know , but loath
to cause fear you're already moving
quietly away , sure I'll go with you , 
as I would now , almost anywhere .

You bastards ! It's all sherbet , and folly
makes you laugh like mules . Chances
dance off your wrists , each day ready , 
sprites in your bones and spite not yet
swollen , not yet set . You gather handful
after miracle handful , seeing straight , 
reaching the lighthouse in record time , 
pockets brim with scimitar things . Now
is not a pinpoint but a sprawling realm . 
Bewilderment and thrill are whip - quick
twins , carried on your backs , each vow
new to touch and each mistake a broken
biscuit . I was you . Sea robber boarding
the won galleon . Roaring trees . Machines
without levers , easy in bowel and lung . 
One cartwheel over the quicksand curve
of Tuesday to Tuesday and you're gone , 
summering , a ship on the farthest wave .

on seventeen , I come from hearty straw . 
My grandpa wore a gallon
hat . My grandma , like a shogun , 
bun and shawl . For their honeymoon , 
they went to the movies . No one
knows what they saw . 
You arrive with licorice , cigarettes , 
the documentary on Woody Allen . 
Don't feign a passion for his start
in tv , or his clarinets , 
or Love and Death . Just skip to the Soon - 
Yi part .

Now is before he was born . Days of air
shaken by bees , crow song probing eaves
and quays . Maker of the future a perfect
terra - cotta tense , a tense which sings . 
The absence of push in his education
was unpresaged by the door's lack of wired
Sesame . He waits and waits for egress . 
The door needs only his touch . 
Its only desire is to swing . He waits
for it to open itself , as the cloud
opens for the melting press of the sun . 
He is ready to rot where he leans , leaving
a breeze - blown blemish long after he has arrived . 
Long before he has come into being .

Before you were I loved you
and when you were born
and when you took your first step
Although I did not know
good luck I want to say
lone penguin keep sturdily waddling
in the direction of those frozen mountains sister
of desolate sanctity
I want to scream
Although I did not know you
I loved you later on
as just a weedy thing
a little skeleton I loved
Both long pre - you a child myself
and as a man in retrospect
I loved and I was there
while they were raping you
I loved although
like God
that's all that I could do -

tonight
my sparrows
let go
the snow
into fields of carnations swollen with anger . 
tonight
the three popes
proclaim
the revolution
against teenage television . 
seals smash
their heads
bloody
their heads
on the elevators
the paternoster elevators
which delays the holding of their conference . 
tonight
my sister
the wind's bride
gives blood
for the cello
of the jericho desert
which prompts the trombones
to hold a protest meeting . 
tonight
I hang your lips
like birdseed
outside my door
and observe
through the window
their death - struggle
with the she vulture . 
tonight
let go
the snow

Melt the fat around the heart ; 
Leave only muscle . 
For us
Spectators
Leave
Only muscle ; 
Only trim the fat
To depth . 
And , even if you
Nick the heart , 
If you tear it
Or scratch it , 
If you slice a petal off it , 
Don't sweat it . 
Be mindful only
That you leave the muscle
Clean , 
Sheared of fat . 
Or you can
Char the heart , 
Melt down the fat , 
Then eat it
With fucking
Fava beans . 
Whatever you do , 
Be sure
To leave the heart
Muscled : thick and delicious . 
For we , citizens , have come
To both see and to be
The god and the heart ; 
We have come to become
The horns of the heart
Splintered into
Their plumpest sections .

The tulips make me want to paint , 
Something about the way they drop
Their petals on the tabletop
And do not wilt so much as faint , 
Something about their burnt - out hearts , 
Something about their pallid stems
Wearing decay like diadems , 
Parading finishes like starts , 
Something about the way they twist
As if to catch the last applause , 
And drink the moment through long straws , 
And how , tomorrow , they'll be missed . 
The way they're somehow getting clearer , 
The tulips make me want to see - 
The tulips make the other me
 ( The backwards one who's in the mirror , 
The one who can't tell left from right ) , 
Glance now over the wrong shoulder
To watch them get a little older
And give themselves up to the light .

One was fire red , 
Hand carved and new - 
The local maker pried the wood
From a torn - down church's pew , 
The Devil's instrument
Wrenched from the house of God . 
It answered merrily and clear
Though my fingering was flawed ; 
Bright and sharp as a young wine , 
They said , but it would mellow , 
And that I would grow into it . 
The other one was yellow
And nicked down at the chin , 
A varnish of Baltic amber , 
A one - piece back of tiger maple
And a low , dark timbre . 
A century old , they said , 
Its sound will never change . 
Rich and deep on G and D , 
Thin on the upper range , 
And how it came from the Old World
Was anybody's guess - 
Light as an exile's suitcase , 
A belly of emptiness : 
That was the one I chose
 ( Not the one of flame ) 
And teachers would turn in their practiced hands
To see whence the sad notes came .

She does this thing . Our seventeen - 
year - old dog . Our mostly deaf dog . 
Our mostly dead dog , statistically
speaking . When I crouch . 
When I put my mouth to her ear
and shout her name . She walks away . 
Walks toward the nothing of speech . 
She even trots down the drive , ears up , 
as if my voice is coming home . 
It's like watching a child
believe in Christmas , right
before you burn the tree down . 
Every time I do it , I think , this time
she'll turn to me . This time
she'll put voice to face . This time , 
I'll be absolved of decay . 
Which is like being a child
who believes in Christmas
as the tree burns , as the drapes catch , 
as Santa lights a smoke
with his blowtorch and asks , want one ?

Having to make eye contact
with the economy - 
A ball cap that says
In Dog Years I'm Dead - " The moon
will turn blood red and then
disappear for awhile , " the TV enthused . Hunched
over an anatomy textbook , a student
traces a heart
over another heart - lunar eclipse . 
In the bathroom , crayoned
graffiti : 
fuck the
He collected CAPTCHA , one seat over , 
Mr . feverish Mange Denied : 
like puzzling sabbath or
street pupas ; we shared
some recent typos : I'm
mediated ( his ) , my tiny bots
of stimulation , he
loved the smudged
and swoony words that proved him
human - 
not a machine trying to infiltrate
the servers
of the New York Times , from which he launched
 ( gad shakes or hefty lama ) 
obits and exposes , some recipes , a digital pic of someone else's
black disaster , he
lobbed links at both of his fathers ( step and bio ) 
a few former lovers , a high school coach , a college chum , 
some people
 " from where I used to work , " so much info
 ( we both agreed ) , " The umbra , " 
the TV explained , shadow
the earth was about to make - 
 ...and if during the parenthesis they felt a strange uneasiness ...
 ...firing rifles and clanging copper pots to rescue the threatened ...
 ...so benighted and hopelessly lost ...
 ...their eyes to the errors ...
MOON LORE , Farmer's Almanac . Waiting room , 
hour two . 
Urgent Care . That was pretty
multivalent . As in : 
We really need you to take care of this . 
We really need you
to care for this . 
To care about this . We really need you
to peer through the clinic's
storefront window , on alert
for the ballyhooed moon - 
And there it was . Reddening
in its black sock , deep
in the middle of the hour , of someone's
nutso - tinsel talk on splendor - 
My fevered friend . Describing
the knocked - out flesh . Each of our heads
fitting like a flash drive
into the port of a healer's hands .

Don't get me wrong : I know
that knowledge is power , 
that mystery's water , 
that hunger makes
a gargantuan
lover , 
and yes , I've drunk
of the river Lethe , 
from the breath of the Celts , 
from the echo of
the bugling elk , 
and yet , 
alas , 
here I be , 
small and twee , 
all liquored up
on song and love , 
hard as rails
and light as air , 
expecting the heavens
to throw down a flare , 
to send in the clowns , 
to burn a bush , 
strike up the sea , 
anything
that might mean
those cloudy bastards
have noticed me .

Spout of a leaf , 
listen out for the screams
of your relentless audience : 
the applause of a waterfall
in the distance , 
a hurricane looting
a Miami shopping mall . 
How careful you are
with the rain - cradling
curve of your back . 
Near your forest , 
all are ready to swim
and happy to drown
in me : this lake of fire
that moats the edges . 
From my mouth , 
they come to peel the flames
and drink their slick throats
into the most silent
of ashes .

Having been blown away
by a book
I am in the gutter
at the end of the street
in little pieces
like the alphabet
 ( mother do not worry
letters are not flesh
though there's meaning in them
but not when they are mean
my letters to you were mean
I found them after you died
and read them and tore them up
and fed them to the wind
thank you for intruding
I love you now leave ) 
Also at the end of the street
there is a magnolia tree
the white kind
that tatters
after it blooms
so the tree winds up
in the street
Our naked shivering bodies
must be at some distance
missing us come back
come back they cry
come home
put down that book
whenever you read
you drift away on a raft
you like your parrot
more than you like me
and stuff like that
 ( dear father
you always were a bore
but I loved you more
than interesting things
and in your honor
I've felt the same about myself
and everyone I've ever met ) 
I like to read in tree houses
whenever I can which is seldom
and sometimes never
The book that blew me away
held all the problems
of the world
and those of being alive
under my nose
but I felt far away from them
at the same time
reading is like that
 ( I am sorry I did not
go to your funeral
but like you said
on the phone
an insect cannot crawl
to China ) 
Here at the end of the street
the insects go on living
under the dome
of the pacific sky
If Mary and Joseph
had walked the sixty miles
to Bethlehem vertically
they would have found
themselves floating
in the outer pitch of space
it would have been cold
no inns
a long night
in the dark endless
and when they began to cry
the whole world would think
something had just been born
I like to read into things
as I am continually borne forward
in time by the winds like the snow
 ( dear sister
you were perfect in every way
like a baby
please tell brother
the only reason
we never spoke
was out of our great love
for each other
which made a big wind
that blew us apart ) 
I think I am coming back
I feel shoulders
where a parrot could land
though a tree would be
as good a place as any
You cannot teach a tree to talk
Trees can say it is spring
but not though bright sunlight
can also be very sad
have you noticed ?

Fly from me does all I would have stay , 
the blossoms did not stay , stayed not the frost
in the yellow grass . Every leash snapped , 
every contract void , and flying in the crows
lingers but a moment in the graveyard oaks
yet inside me it never stops so I can't tell
who is chasing , who chased , I can sleep
into afternoon and still wake soaring . 
So out come the bats , down spiral swifts
into the chimneys , Hey , I'm real , say the dream - 
figments then are gone like breath - prints
on a window , handwriting in snow . Whatever
I hold however flies apart , the children skip
into the park come out middle - aged
with children of their own . Your laugh
over the phone , will it ever answer me again ? 
Too much flying , photons perforating us , 
voices hurtling into outer space , Whitman
out past Neptune , Dickinson retreating
yet getting brighter . Remember running
barefoot across hot sand into the sea's
hovering , remember my hand as we darted
against the holiday Broadway throng , 
catching your train just as it was leaving ? 
Hey , it's real , your face like a comet , 
horses coming from the field for morning
oats , insects hitting a screen , the message
nearly impossible to read , obscured by light
because carried by Mercury : I love you , 
I'm coming . Sure , what fluttered is now gone , 
maybe a smudge left , maybe a delicate under - 
feather only then that too , yes , rained away . 
And when the flying is flown and the heart's
a useless sliver in a glacier and the gown
hangs still as meat in a locker and eyesight
is dashed - down glass and the mouth rust - 
stoppered , will some twinge still pass between us , 
still some fledgling pledge ?

Rain fell as a glass
breaks , 
something suddenly everywhere at the same time . 
To live like a painting
looked into from more than one angle at once - 
eye to eye with the doorway , 
down at the hair , 
up at your own dusty feet . 
 " This is your house , " 
said my bird heart to my heart of the cricket , 
and I entered . 
The happy see only happiness , 
the living see only life , 
the young see only the young , 
as lovers believe
they wake always beside one also in love . 
However often I turned its pages , 
I kept ending up
as the same two sentences of the book : 
The being of some is : to be . Of others : to be without . 
Then I fell back asleep , in Swedish . 
A sheep grazing is unimpressed by the mountain
but not by its flies . 
The grief
of what hasn't yet happened - 
a door closed from inside . 
The weight of the grass
dividing
an ant's five - legged silence
walking through it . 
What is the towel , what is the water , 
changes , 
though of we three , 
only the towel can be held upside down in the sun . 
 " I was once . " 
Said not in self - pity or praise . 
This dignity we allow barn owl , 
ego , oyster .

From the guts of the house , I hear my mother crying
for her mother and wish I understood
the principles of tranquility . How to rest
the mind on a likeness of a blast furnace
framed in formica by anon . A photo of lounge
chairs with folded tartan lap robes . An untitled typology of
industrial parks . The gentle interface of yawn and nature . 
It would soothe us . It would soothe us . We would be soothed
by that slow looking with a limited truth value . See
how the realtor's lens makes everything look larger
and there's so much glare the floor looks wow
under the smartificial xmas tree . 
After studying Comparative Reality
I began Die Polyvinylchloride Tannenbaumserie . 
Turn off that tiny tasteful star , I commanded . 
While you're alive there's no time
for minor amazements . Turn off the sallow pages of
your paralegal pad . I don't need a light to think
of you . I don't need a god to pray . 
Some things are glow alone . I said one thing you said
you remembered I said . Was it will you be my
trophy friend ? Or are you someone else's
difficult person ? I mean the more myself I
become the less intelligible I seem to otters . 
I know what you mean you said . 
It's like the time I was compelled to speak
on hedonism to the monks and nuns . 
Did I say most religion is devotional
expediency ? Or religion doesn't worry about being
religious , its wisdom corrupted by its brilliance as light
passing near the sun is deflected
in its path . Deep in its caprices , 
the whole body thinks it's understood . 
To think otterwise is isolating . When I said
hedonism stressed cheerfulness , 
there were disappointed groans . Look , I'm sorry
I gave you an ornament shaped like a hollow look . 
I liked its trinket brightness . Just don't give me
a water tower dressed up as a church steeple
or one of those silly thunderstorms
that hang around volcanoes . See how those teardrop lights
make every object jump ? The memory does . 
You made me love . Was it exile in honey
is still exile ? Am I the fire or just another flame ? 
Please sell me an indulgence , I begged a monk . 
And tell me what creature , what peril , 
could craft that sound that night
dropped like a nubile sliver in my ear . 
There is no freedom of silence
when morture forces us to speak
from organs other than the heart . 
It was something about love . A far cry . It was come to me
unmediated , go to god lengths . In great things , 
the attempt alone is sufficient . I think this
'cause I'm finite . That's an understanding
to which reason can only aspire
though an entire speech community labored
for generations to say it in a fair hand clearly
dated and scented with lavender . My one and only only
a crass color orgy will see us through
the dusk ahead , the months gray as donkey . 
See how it grows its own cross of fur
and bears it on its back ? I showed you that .

You'd meet me on the broad and shining shore
Of Pylos , so I'd planned , 
With Mentor's tall ship pulled up on the beach
Snug in the sand . 
We would be bound , as those who sailed with the gods , 
In the winged friendship of youth , 
And would take our seats in the stone thrones that Time
And custom had made smooth
And meet that man who still in the third generation
Reigned serene , a sage
Whose tales of travels and holy decrees had ripened
In his mind with age - 
At dawn , we'd attend the sacrifice to the gods , 
The ritual slaughters
Of the three - year - old heifers , and hear the single cry
That rose from his three daughters
When the axe thwacked , and the black - fringed , slow - rolling eye
Drowned in a swoon
Of darkness , and the gilt horns were rendered idle , 
A hazy half moon . 
My love imagined you , as a sister her brother , 
In your virginal bath , 
How Polycaste rinsed your naked body and dressed you
In a robe of fine cloth . 
I thought to prod you a little with my foot
As dawn was about to break : 
The gleaming chariot's yoked for us and ready . 
No time to lose ! Awake ! 
And to spend all day in the talk that comes and goes , 
Or silence , when no one spoke , 
While we drove the horses who were always leaning one way
Or another against the yoke , 
But most of all I wanted to see your eyes , 
Your deer - like eyes , behold
The palace of Menelaus , and forget themselves
In bronze and the gleam of gold , 
Unwavering gaze , sinking the sight so deep , 
You'd never remember
The figured silver , the ivory , gilded or white , 
The heavy amber , 
And I thought that I would say in a hushed voice
Leaning close to your ear , 
Watch out , my friend , because in a moment , soon , 
Helen will appear
Before our very eyes , the one and only
Daughter of the Swan , 
And then we will sink our eyelids in the river
Of Oblivion . 
So brightly I saw you ; but what grassy roads
Have led me to your tomb ! 
And the blazing roses with which I strew your grave
And make all Rome abloom , 
Light the way unto your golden songs
As though they were the brave , 
Armed bodies that turn to dust before one's eyes
In an ancient , new - breached grave , 
And all the worthy treasure of Mycenae , 
The golden plunder
I thought to lay before you - goblet , sword , 
And diadem - past wonder , 
A mask on your dead beauty like the mask
That covered the face
Of the king of the Achaeans - all gold , all artifice , 
Hammered upon Death's trace .

Girl on a heap of street sweepings high
as a pyre , laid on snarled wire & dented rim . 
Girl set down among the wrung - out hides . 
A girl who was coming from church . It is late
Sunday afternoon . Was it a seizure ? Is it
destiny or bad luck we should fear ? Weak heart
or swerving taxi ? In Tet Bef by the dirty ocean
thousands crush past her without pausing
at the shrine of her spayed limbs ; brilliance
like the flesh of lilies sprouting from the pummeled cane . 
Is it possible to be lighthearted , hours later ? 
Days ? To forget the yellow dress ? 
I am waiting for her mother to find her , still
wearing one white spotless glove ( where is the other ? ) , 
my idle taxi level with her unbruised arm , 
her fingers just curling like petals of a fallen flower
and how did it end ? Let someone have gathered her up
before the stars assembled coldly overhead : 
her dress brighter than gold , crocus , the yolk of an egg
her face covered like the bride of a god ; let them
have found her & borne her though the traffic's clamor
veiled with a stranger's handkerchief .

